.TH LLAPI_POOL_IS_PINNED_FILE 3 2026-03-19 "Lustre User API" "Lustre Library Functions"
.SH NAME
llapi_pool_is_pinned_fd, llapi_pool_is_pinned_file, llapi_pool_is_pinned_fid \- test whether a Lustre file is pinned to an OST pool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lustre/lustreapi.h>
.PP
.BI "int llapi_pool_is_pinned_fd(int " fd ", const char *" pool_name ");"
.PP
.BI "int llapi_pool_is_pinned_file(const char *" path ", const char *" pool_name ");"
.PP
.BI "int llapi_pool_is_pinned_fid(const char *" lustre_dir ", const struct lu_fid *" fid ","
.BI "                             const char *" pool_name ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B llapi_pool_is_pinned_*(3)
functions test whether a Lustre file currently has a
.B pool
entry for
.I pool_name
in its
.B lustre.pin
extended attribute.
.PP
Pool pins are stored as YAML entries of the form
.RS
.nf
pool: \fIpool_name\fP
.fi
.RE
inside the
.B lustre.pin
attribute,
which may also contain other entries such as
.B hsm
pins used by the PCC subsystem.
Multiple pool pins and PCC pins can coexist in the same attribute.
.PP
The
.BR llapi_pool_is_pinned_fd() ,
.BR llapi_pool_is_pinned_file()
and
.BR llapi_pool_is_pinned_fid()
functions return
.B 1
only if a matching
.B pool
entry for
.I pool_name
is present in the
.B lustre.pin
attribute.
They return
.B 0
when no such entry exists,
including when the
.B lustre.pin
attribute is missing entirely.
On error, such as an invalid
.I pool_name
argument, failures resolving a FID,
or I/O or parse errors while reading
the attribute,
these functions return a negative error code
.RI ( -errno ),
for example
.BR -EINVAL " or " -ENOENT .
.PP
The
.I pool_name
parameter may optionally be qualified with a filesystem name using the
"fsname.pool" notation commonly used by Lustre tools.
In this case the
"fsname." prefix is silently discarded before the pool name is stored
or compared,
and only the unqualified pool name is recorded in the
.B lustre.pin
attribute.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The
.B llapi_pool_is_pinned_*()
functions return
.B 1
if a matching pool pin entry is present,
.B 0
if not, and a negative error code
.RI ( -errno )
on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.B EINVAL
An invalid argument was specified,
such as a NULL or overly long
.I pool_name
string.
.PP
.in +8n
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
#include <lustre/lustreapi.h>

int pinned;

pinned = llapi_pool_is_pinned_file(path, pool_name);
if (pinned < 0) {
	/* error: report and abort */
	fprintf(stderr, "llapi_pool_is_pinned_file failed: %s\n",
		strerror(-pinned));
	exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
}

if (pinned) {
	/* file is pinned to this pool */
} else {
	/* file is not pinned to this pool */
}
.EE
.in
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.BR llapi_pool_is_pinned_fd() ,
.BR llapi_pool_is_pinned_file() ,
and
.BR llapi_pool_is_pinned_fid()
functions are part of the
.BR lustre (7)
user application interface library since release 2.18.0.
.\" Added in commit v2_17-51-gxxx
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR llapi_pool_pin_file (3),
.BR llapi_pool_unpin_file (3),
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lustreapi (7)

