.TH LLAPI_DIR_CREATE_FOREIGN 3 2026-01-26 "Lustre User API" "Lustre Library Functions"
.SH NAME
llapi_dir_create_foreign \- create a foreign directory entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lustre/lustreapi.h>
.PP
.BI "int llapi_dir_create_foreign(const char *" name ", mode_t " mode ,
.BI "                             __u32 " type ", __u32 " flags ,
.BI "                             const char *" value )
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR llapi_dir_create_foreign ()
creates a foreign directory entry that stores a reference to external
storage or metadata. This allows Lustre to track and manage directories
that reside outside the Lustre filesystem.
.PP
The arguments are as follows:
.TP 15
.I name
The pathname of the directory entry to create. The parent directory must
already exist and be on a Lustre filesystem.
.TP
.I mode
The permission bits for the new directory, as described in
.BR open (2).
.TP
.I type
The type of foreign directory. This identifies what kind of external
storage or system the foreign reference points to.
.TP
.I flags
Flags controlling the behavior of the foreign directory entry.
.TP
.I value
A string value containing the foreign reference information, such as
a path or identifier in the external system.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR llapi_dir_create_foreign ()
returns 0 on success, or a negative errno value on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.B -EACCES
Permission denied on parent directory.
.TP
.B -EALREADY
Stripe already set on existing directory.
.TP
.B -EEXIST
Directory already exists.
.TP
.B -EINVAL
An invalid argument was specified.
.TP
.B -ENOENT
Parent directory does not exist.
.TP
.B -ENOMEM
Not enough memory to allocate a resource.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B llapi_dir_create_foreign ()
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
user application interface library since release 2.13.0.
.\" Added in commit 2.12.53-15-gfdad38781c
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR llapi_dir_create (3),
.BR llapi_dir_create_pool (3),
.BR lustreapi (7)
