.TH LLAPI_POOL_PIN_FILE 3 2026-03-19 "Lustre User API" "Lustre Library Functions"
.SH NAME
llapi_pool_pin_fd, llapi_pool_pin_file, llapi_pool_pin_fid \- pin a Lustre file to an OST pool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lustre/lustreapi.h>
.PP
.BI "int llapi_pool_pin_fd(int " fd ", const char *" pool_name ");"
.PP
.BI "int llapi_pool_pin_file(const char *" path ", const char *" pool_name ");"
.PP
.BI "int llapi_pool_pin_fid(const char *" lustre_dir ", const struct lu_fid *" fid ","
.BI "                       const char *" pool_name ");"
.PP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B llapi_pool_pin_*(3)
functions manipulate the Lustre
.B lustre.pin
extended attribute of a file in order to record whether the file is
pinned to a particular OST pool.
.PP
Pool pins are stored as YAML entries of the form
.RS
.nf
pool: \fIpool_name\fP
.fi
.RE
inside the
.B lustre.pin
attribute,
which may also contain other entries such as
.B hsm
pins used by the PCC subsystem.
Multiple pool pins and PCC pins can coexist in the same attribute.
.PP
The
.BR llapi_pool_pin_fd() ,
.BR llapi_pool_pin_file()
and
.BR llapi_pool_pin_fid()
functions add a
.B pool
entry for the specified
.I pool_name
to the
.B lustre.pin
extended attribute of the referenced file if it is not already present,
leaving the attribute unchanged when the entry already exists.
.PP
The
.BR llapi_pool_unpin_fd() ,
.BR llapi_pool_unpin_file()
and
.BR llapi_pool_unpin_fid()
functions are documented in
.BR llapi_pool_unpin_file (3).
.PP
The
.BR llapi_pool_is_pinned_fd() ,
.BR llapi_pool_is_pinned_file()
and
.BR llapi_pool_is_pinned_fid()
functions are documented in
.BR llapi_pool_is_pinned_file (3).
.PP
The
.I pool_name
parameter may optionally be qualified with a filesystem name using the
"fsname.pool" notation commonly used by Lustre tools.
In this case the "fsname." prefix is silently discarded before the pool name is
stored or compared,
and only the unqualified pool name is recorded in the
.B lustre.pin
attribute.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The
.BR llapi_pool_pin_*()
functions return 0 on success.
On failure they return a negative errno value and set
.B errno
to the corresponding error code.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.B EINVAL
An invalid argument was specified,
such as a NULL or overly long
.I pool_name
string.
.PP
.in +8n
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
#include <lustre/lustreapi.h>

if (llapi_pool_pin_file(path, pool_name) < 0) {
	perror("llapi_pool_pin_file");
	/* handle error based on errno */
}
.EE
.in
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.BR llapi_pool_pin_fd() ,
.BR llapi_pool_pin_file() ,
.BR llapi_pool_pin_fid()
functions are part of the
.BR lustre (7)
user application interface library since release 2.18.0.
.\" Added in commit v2_17-51-gxxx
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR llapi_pool_unpin_file (3),
.BR llapi_pool_is_pinned_file (3),
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lustreapi (7)

