.TH LLAPI_DIR_CREATE 3 2026-01-26 "Lustre User API" "Lustre Library Functions"
.SH NAME
llapi_dir_create \- create a directory with specified striping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lustre/lustreapi.h>
.PP
.BI "int llapi_dir_create(const char *" name ", mode_t " mode ,
.BI "                     const struct llapi_stripe_param *" param )
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR llapi_dir_create ()
creates a new directory with the specified
.I name
and stripe parameters on a Lustre filesystem.
This allows explicit control over which MDTs (Metadata Targets) the directory
is striped across, enabling parallel metadata operations for directories
with large numbers of entries.
.PP
The arguments are as follows:
.TP 15
.I name
The pathname of the directory to create. The parent directory must already
exist and be on a Lustre filesystem.
.TP
.I mode
The permission bits for the new directory, as described in
.BR open (2).
.TP
.I param
A pointer to a
.B struct llapi_stripe_param
containing the striping configuration. The relevant fields for directories are:
.RS
.TP 20
.I lsp_stripe_count
The number of MDTs to stripe the directory across. This is typically set
to '1' unless hundreds of thousands of files will be created directly
in this directory.
.TP
.I lsp_stripe_offset
The MDT index where the directory should start, or \-1 to allow the system
to choose based on available space.
.TP
.I lsp_stripe_pattern
The hash algorithm used to distribute directory entries across MDTs.
Valid values include
.B LMV_HASH_TYPE_FNV_1A_64
(default, good distribution),
.B LMV_HASH_TYPE_CRUSH
(optimized for migration), and
.B LMV_HASH_TYPE_ALL_CHARS
(weak, for testing only).
.TP
.I lsp_pool
Currently ignored, should be set as NULL.
.TP
.I lsp_is_specific
If true, use the
.I lsp_tgts
array for specific MDT indices.
.TP
.I lsp_max_inherit
Maximum depth for subdirectories to inherit this default layout.
.TP
.I lsp_max_inherit_rr
Maximum depth for subdirectories to use round-robin MDT selection.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR llapi_dir_create ()
returns 0 on success, or a negative errno value on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.B -EACCES
Permission denied on parent directory.
.TP
.B -EALREADY
Stripe already set on existing directory.
.TP
.B -EEXIST
Directory already exists.
.TP
.B -EINVAL
An invalid argument was specified.
.TP
.B -ENOENT
Parent directory does not exist.
.TP
.B -ENOMEM
Not enough memory to allocate a resource.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B llapi_dir_create ()
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
user application interface library since release 2.10.0.
.\" Added in commit 2.10.56-86-g087ec276de
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR llapi_dir_create_foreign (3),
.BR llapi_dir_create_pool (3),
.BR lustreapi (7)
