.TH LLAPI_CHANGELOG_START 3 2025-11-25 "Lustre User API" "Lustre Library Functions"
.SH NAME
llapi_changelog_start, llapi_changelog_start_user, llapi_changelog_set_xflags, llapi_changelog_fini \- Initialize and clean a read instance for MDT changelogs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lustre/lustreapi.h>
.PP
.BI "int llapi_changelog_start(void **" priv ", enum changelog_send_flag " flags ,
.BI "                          const char *" device ", long long " startrec ");"
.PP
.BI "int llapi_changelog_start_user(void **" priv ", enum changelog_send_flag " flags ,
.BI "                               const char *" device ", const char *" username ,
.BI "                               __u64 " mask ", long long " startrec ");"
.PP
.BI "int llapi_changelog_set_xflags(void *" priv,
.BI "                               enum changelog_send_extra_flag " extra_flags ");"
.PP
.BI "int llapi_changelog_fini(void **" priv ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.B llapi_changelog_start()
initializes a new instance
.I priv
to read MDT changelogs. It opens the changelog char device
corresponding to the MDT's name given by
.I device
(e.g: "lustrefs-MDT0000").
.P
A changelog starting point can be specified with
.I startrec
record number.
.B llapi_changelog_recv()
will get changelog records with numbers greater or equal than
.IR startrec .
0 value means that all records will be read.
.PP
Some options can be passed to
.B llapi_changelog_start()
with
.I flags
mask.
.PP
.B enum changelog_send_flag
values:
.EX
	CHANGELOG_FLAG_FOLLOW
	CHANGELOG_FLAG_BLOCK
	CHANGELOG_FLAG_JOBID
	CHANGELOG_FLAG_EXTRA_FLAGS
.EE
.TP
CHANGELOG_FLAG_FOLLOW
Use changelog follow mode:
.B llapi_changelog_recv()
will not return when all records have been read. Instead it will block until a
new record is available. It avoids restarting an instance and re-scan for newer
changelogs.
.TP
CHANGELOG_FLAG_BLOCK
Deprecated since Lustre 2.10.
.TP
CHANGELOG_FLAG_JOBID
Pack jobid into the changelog records if available.
.TP
CHANGELOG_FLAG_EXTRA_FLAG
Pack additional flag bits into the changelog record.
.PP
The function
.B llapi_changelog_start_user()
, similar to the function
.B llapi_changelog_start()
, initializes a new instance
.I priv
to read MDT changelogs, but with user-specific filtering, including
username and mask.
.P
The
.I username
parameter specifies the changelog username or ID, e.g. "cl1", "cl1-user", "1",
or "user".
.P
The
.I mask
parameter specifies the filtering mask in numeric form.
If
.I mask
is 0, the user's registered
.I MASK
specified to
.BR lctl-changelog_register (8)
will be used.
.PP
The function
.B llapi_changelog_set_xflags()
specifies additional changelog flags with
.I extra_flags
mask for the instance
.IR priv .
To use those extra flags, CHANGELOG_FLAG_EXTRA_FLAG must be set by
.B llapi_changelog_start()
on
.I flags
parameter.
.PP
.B enum changelog_send_extra_flag
values:
.EX
	CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_UIDGID
	CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_NID
	CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_OMODE
	CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_XATTR
.EE
.TP
CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_UIDGID
Pack uid/gid into the changelog record
.TP
CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_NID
Pack nid into the changelog record
.TP
CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_OMODE
Pack open mode into the changelog record
.TP
CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_XATTR
Pack xattr name into the changelog record
.PP
The function
.B llapi_changelog_fini()
closes the MDT's changelog char device and free internal pointers for the instance
.IR priv .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Return 0 on success or a negative errno value on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM -ENOMEM
Insufficient memory to complete operation.
.TP
.SM -EINVAL
One or more invalid arguments are given.
.TP
.SM -ENOENT
MDT's changelog char device not found. Is the Lustre FS mounted?
.TP
.SM -EACCES
Not enough permissions to open the changelog char device. By default, the device
is only accessible to the root user.
.SH EXAMPLE
To register a user to watch file and directory creation and removal:
.EX
\&
        char *mdd = "testfs-MDT0000";
        long long startrec = 0;
        char *name = "dirwatch";
        char *mask_str = "rmdir,mkdir,creat,unlnk";
        __u64 mask = CHANGELOG_DEFMASK;
        void *changelog_priv;
        struct changelog_rec *rec;
\&
        /* convert mask string to numeric value */
        rc = llapi_convert_str2mask(mask_str, changelog_type2str, &mask,
                                CHANGELOG_MINMASK, CHANGELOG_ALLMASK,
                                CHANGELOG_DEFMASK);
\&
        /* register a new Changelog consumer with a name and mask */
        rc = llapi_changelog_start_user(&changelog_priv,
                                CHANGELOG_FLAG_BLOCK | CHANGELOG_FLAG_EXTRA_FLAGS |
                                CHANGELOG_FLAG_NID_BE | CHANGELOG_FLAG_JOBID,
                                mdd, name, mask, startrec);
        rc = llapi_changelog_set_xflags(changelog_priv,
                                        CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_UIDGID |
                                        CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_NID |
                                        CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_OMODE |
                                        CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_XATTR);
\&
        while ((rc = llapi_changelog_recv(changelog_priv, &rec)) == 0) {
                /* process changelog records */
                llapi_changelog_free(&rec);
        }
\&
        llapi_changelog_fini(&changelog_priv);
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B llapi_changelog_start()
and
.B llapi_changelog_fini()
are part of the
.BR lustre (7)
user application interface library since release 2.0.0,
\# Added in commit 1.6.0-3165-g8901d15087b2
.B llapi_changelog_set_xflags()
since release 2.11.0,
\# Added in commit v2_10_55_0-122-g361edea47072
and
.B llapi_changelog_start_user()
since release 2.18.0.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs-changelog (1),
.BR llapi_changelog_clear (3),
.BR llapi_changelog_get_fd (3),
.BR llapi_changelog_in_buf (3),
.BR llapi_changelog_recv (3),
.BR llapi_changelog_start_user (3),
.BR llapi_convert_str2mask (3),
.BR lustreapi (7),
.BR lctl-changelog_register (8)
