.TH LLAPI_CHANGELOG_START 3 2025-12-19 "Lustre User API" "Lustre Library Functions"
.SH NAME
llapi_convert_str2mask \- convert named flags into numeric bitmask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lustre/lustreapi.h>
.PP
.BI "int llapi_convert_str2mask(const char " *str ,
.BI "                           const char *(*" bit2str ")(int bit ),"
.BI "                           __u64 *" oldmask ", __u64 " minmask ,
.BI "                           __u64 " allmask ", __u64 " defmask );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR llapi_convert_str2mask ()
converts a list of flag names specified in
.B str
to numeric values.  The initial mask value is specified in
.I oldmask
(may be 0) and is also the returned value.
The
.I bit2str
function is called repeatedly to convert the named flags in
.Ir str
to a numeric bitmask.
.PP
If the named flags in
.B str
start with a leading
.B \+
then that flag will be added to those in
.IR oldmask ,
or if the flags start with a leading
.B \-
then that flag will be removed from those in
.IR oldmask ,
otherwise the initial flags are reset to 0.
Named flags may be separated by a space, comma, or plus to indicate the
flag should be set, or minus to indicate the flag should be cleared.
.PP
If the reserved flag name
.RB ' all '
is specified, then all of the flags in
.I allmask
will be set or cleared, respectively.  If the reserved flag name
.RB ' default '
is specified, then the flags listed in
.I defmask
will be set or cleared.
The flags specified in
.I minmask
are mandatory and will always be set, regardless of other flags listed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Return 0 on success, or a negative errno value on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM -EINVAL
The specified
.B str
contains an invalid flag name, or none at all.
.SH EXAMPLE
To convert changelog flag names to a numeric mask:
.EX
        char *mask_str = "rmdir,mkdir,creat,unlnk";
        __u64 mask = CHANGELOG_DEFMASK;
\&
        /* convert mask string to numeric value */
        rc = llapi_convert_str2mask(mask_str, changelog_type2str, &mask,
                                CHANGELOG_MINMASK, CHANGELOG_ALLMASK,
                                CHANGELOG_DEFMASK);
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B llapi_convert_str2mask()
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
user application interface library since release 2.17.0.
\# Added in commit v2_16_59-5-g43ec76a4a9
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR llapi_changelog_start_user (3),
.BR lustreapi (7).
