.TH LLAPI_DIR_CREATE_POOL 3 2026-01-26 "Lustre User API" "Lustre Library Functions"
.SH NAME
llapi_dir_create_pool \- create a striped directory with individual parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lustre/lustreapi.h>
.PP
.BI "int llapi_dir_create_pool(const char *" name ", int " mode ,
.BI "                          int " stripe_offset ", int " stripe_count ,
.BI "                          int " stripe_pattern ,
.BI "                          const char *" pool_name )
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR llapi_dir_create_pool ()
is a convenience function that creates a new directory with the specified
.I name
and striping parameters on a Lustre filesystem.
It constructs a
.B struct llapi_stripe_param
from the individual arguments and calls
.BR llapi_dir_create (3).
.PP
This function provides a simpler interface when only basic striping parameters
are needed, without requiring the caller to populate the full stripe parameter
structure.
.PP
The arguments are as follows:
.TP 15
.I name
The pathname of the directory to create. The parent directory must already
exist and be on a Lustre filesystem.
.TP
.I mode
The permission bits for the new directory, as described in
.BR open (2).
.TP
.I stripe_offset
The MDT index where the directory should start, or \-1 for round-robin
selection across available MDTs.
.TP
.I stripe_count
The number of MDTs to stripe the directory across.
A value of 0 uses the filesystem default.
.TP
.I stripe_pattern
The hash algorithm for distributing directory entries across MDTs.
Valid values include
.B LMV_HASH_TYPE_FNV_1A_64
(default, good distribution),
.B LMV_HASH_TYPE_CRUSH
(optimized for migration), and
.B LMV_HASH_TYPE_ALL_CHARS
(weak, for testing only).
.TP
.I pool_name
Currently ignored, should be set as NULL.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR llapi_dir_create_pool ()
returns 0 on success, or a negative errno value on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.B -EACCES
Permission denied on parent directory.
.TP
.B -EALREADY
Stripe already set on existing directory.
.TP
.B -EEXIST
Directory already exists.
.TP
.B -EINVAL
An invalid argument was specified.
.TP
.B -ENOENT
Parent directory does not exist.
.TP
.B -ENOMEM
Not enough memory to allocate a resource.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B llapi_dir_create_pool ()
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
user application interface library since release 2.4.0.
.\" Added in commit 2.3.53-7-gf715e4e298
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR llapi_dir_create (3),
.BR llapi_dir_create_foreign (3),
.BR lustreapi (7)
