.TH AT_MAX 4 2025-10-09 Lustre "Lustre Kernel Interfaces"
.SH NAME
at_max \- Adaptive timeout maximum (sec)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS PROPERTIES
.TP
.B Perms
.BR 644 " | " -rw-r--r--.
.TP
.B Scope
Global
.TP
.B Config
always present
.TP
.B Default
.B at_max=600
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B at_max
is an upper limit on the service time estimate. If
.B at_max
is reached, then the RPC timeout will not increase further even if RPCs
take longer to complete under heavy load.
Adaptive timeouts are used to determine appropriate waiting times.
This includes the rolling maximum RPC and network delays over the past
.BR at_history (4)
seconds.
.PP
Setting
.B at_max
to 0 causes adaptive timeouts to be disabled and the fixed
.B timeout
parameter is used to calculate timeouts instead.
.PP
If slow hardware causes the service estimate to increase beyond the default
.B at_max
value, increase
.B at_max
to the maximum time you are willing to wait for an RPC completion.
.PP
It is preferred to set
.B at_max
as a per-target tunable using the
.BI *. FSNAME - TARGET *.at_max
parameter instead of the global at_max parameter. This avoids issues if a
single client mounts two separate filesystems with different at_max settings.
.SH MODULES
This parameter is in the following modules:
.EX
.B at_max
.EE
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
at_max=600
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B at_max
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package.
.\" commit #
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR at_early_margin (4),
.BR at_extra (4),
.BR at_history (4),
.BR at_min (4),
.BR ldlm_enqueue_min (4),
.BR lmv.target_obds.at_max (4),
.BR lov.target_obds.at_max (4),
.BR mdc.at_max (4),
.BR mdt.at_max (4),
.BR mgc.at_max (4),
.BR mgs.at_max (4),
.BR obdfilter.at_max (4),
.BR osc.at_max (4)
