.TH AT_MIN 4 2025-10-09 Lustre "Lustre Kernel Interfaces"
.SH NAME
at_min \- Adaptive timeout minimum (sec)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS PROPERTIES
.TP
.B Perms
.BR 644 " | " -rw-r--r--.
.TP
.B Scope
Global
.TP
.B Config
always present
.TP
.B Default
.B at_min = 5
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B at_min
is the minimum processing time that a server will report.
Ideally, at_min should be left at its default value.
Clients base their timeouts on this value,
but they do not use this value directly.
.PP
If, for some reason (usually due to temporary network outages or sudden spikes
in load immediately after mount),
the adaptive timeout value is too short and clients time out their RPCs,
you can increase the at_min value to compensate for this.
.PP
Adaptive timeouts are used to determine appropriate waiting times before the
client will resend an RPC.
.PP
It is preferred to set
.B at_min
as a per-target tunable using the
.BI *. FSNAME - TARGET *.at_min
parameter instead of the global parameter. This avoids issues if a single
client mounts two separate filesystems with different at_min tunable settings.
.SH MODULES
This parameter is in the following modules:
.EX
.B at_min
.EE
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
at_min=5
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B at_min
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package.
.\" commit #
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR at_early_margin (4),
.BR at_extra (4),
.BR at_history (4),
.BR at_max (4),
.BR ldlm_enqueue_min (4),
.BR lmv.target_obds.at_min (4),
.BR lov.target_obds.at_min (4),
.BR mdc.at_min (4),
.BR mdt.at_min (4),
.BR mgc.at_min (4),
.BR mgs.at_min (4),
.BR obdfilter.at_min (4),
.BR osc.at_min (4)
