.TH CPU_PATTERN 4 2025-10-18 Lustre "Lustre Kernel Interfaces"
.SH NAME
cpu_pattern \- CPU partitions pattern
cpu_npartitions \- number of CPU partitions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS PROPERTIES
.TP
.B Perms
.BR 444 " | " -r--r--r--.
.BR 444 " | " -r--r--r--.
.TP
.B Scope
Glabal
.TP
.B Config
always present
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cpu_pattern
and
.B cpu_npartitions
are used to configure the CPU partition table.
If no pattern is specifified then there will be a partition for every 4 cores
in the system.
This is a module option that can only be set during module initialization using
the
.B cpu_pattern
and
.B cpu_npartitions
options in
.BR /etc/modprobe.d/lustre.conf .
.PP
A user can specify CPU partitions by string pattern with the following
behaviors:
.RS
.EX
cpu_pattern="0[CORE0, CORE1, ...] 1[CORE2, CORE3, ...] ..."
.EE
.RE
This pattern allows you to specify a set of CPU cores for each partition. The
cores do not have to be contiguous and do not need to contain all available
cores. However, cores in a CPT should be in the same NUMA node, according to
.BR numactl (8) " -s" .
.RS
.EX
cpu_npartitions=N
.EE
.RE
This pattern allows you to specify the number of CPU partitions. The cores
will be evenly split into the specified number of partitions. This is overridden
by the
.B cpu_pattern="N"
option, but can otherwise be combined with other patterns.
.RS
.EX
cpu_pattern="N 0[NODE0, NODE1, ...] 1[NODE2, NODE3, ...] ..."
.EE
.RE
This pattern allows you to specify a set of NUMA nodes for each partition. The
nodes do not have to be contiguous and do not need to contain all available
nodes.
.RS
.EX
cpu_pattern="C[INDEX0, INDEX1, ...]"
.EE
.RE
This pattern allows you to exclude a set of cores from each partition.
The CPT is first initialized, using npartitions, NUMA
nodes, or the default layout.
Then cores are removed from each partition that match the specified indeces.
.RS
.EX
cpu_pattern="X[CORE0, CORE1, ...]"
.EE
.RE
This pattern allows you to exclude a set of cores from the CPT that they
belong to. The CPT is first initialized, using npartitions, NUMA nodes,
or the default layout.
.SS CPU partition
The CPU partition is virtual processing unit. It can present 1-N cores,
or 1-N NUMA nodes, in other words, CPU partition is a pool of processors.
The ID of a CPU partition always starts from 0.
.SS CPU Partition Table (CPT)
A CPT is a set of CPU partitions. There are two modes for CPT:
.B CFS_CPU_MODE_NUMA
and
.BR CFS_CPU_MODE_SMP.
.SH MODULES
This parameter is in the following modules:
.EX
.B /etc/modprobe.d/lustre.conf
.EE
.SH EXAMPLES
The default pattern for the CPT will put 4 cores in each partitions:
.RS
.EX
options libcfs cpu_pattern=
cpu_partition_table=0	: 0 1 2 3
1	: 4 5 6 7
2	: 8 9 10 11
3	: 12 13 14 15
.EE
.RE
The modifying the npartitions for the CPT will split the cores evenly:
.RS
.EX
options libcfs cpu_npartitions=3
cpu_partition_table=0	: 0 1 2 3 4 5
1	: 6 7 8 9 10
2	: 11 12 13 14 15
.EE
.RE
Use a default mapping of the CPT to the NUMA node layout that has 4 nodes:
.RS
.EX
options libcfs cpu_pattern=N
cpu_partition_table=0	: 0 1 2 3
1	: 4 5 6 7
2	: 8 9 10 11
3	: 12 13 14 15
.EE
.RE
Put several NUMA nodes into one partition:
.RS
.EX
options libcfs cpu_pattern=N 0[0,1] 1[2-3]
cpu_partition_table=0	: 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
1	: 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
.EE
.RE
Exclude the first two cores from each partition:
.RS
.EX
options libcfs cpu_pattern=C[0,1]
cpu_partition_table=0	: 2 3
1	: 6 7
2	: 10 11
3	: 14 15
.EE
.RE
Exclude cores 0 and 10 to reseerve them for non-Lustre tasks:
.RS
.EX
options libcfs cpu_pattern=X[0,10]
options libcfs cpu_npartitions=3
cpu_partition_table=0	: 1 2 3 4 5
1	: 6 7 8 9
2	: 11 12 13 14 15
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B cpu_pattern
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package.
.\" commit #
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cpu_npartitions (4),
.BR cpu_partition_distance (4),
.BR cpu_partition_table (4),
.BR numa (7)
