.TH LLITE.ENABLE_SETSTRIPE_GID 4 2026-03-13 "Lustre" "Lustre Kernel Interfaces"
.SH NAME
llite.enable_setstripe_gid \- control user file layout specification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY
.RI "lctl get_param llite." FSNAME *.enable_setstripe_gid
.SY
.RI "lctl set_param llite." FSNAME *.enable_setstripe_gid= GID
.YS
.SS PROPERTIES
.TP
.B Access Permissions
.br
.BR 644 " | " -rw-r--r--
.TP
.B Scope
.br
Per local filesystem mountpoint.
.TP
.B Config
.br
.B enable_setstripe_gid
is always present for client mountpoints.
.TP
.B Default
.br
.RB enable_setstripe_gid= -1
.TP
.B Valid Range
.br
.RB enable_setstripe_gid= -1
.br
.RB enable_setstripe_gid= 4294967294
.SH DESCRIPTION
The default
.I GID
value of
.B -1
indicates that any user is allowed to create files with specific layouts
using the
.BR lfs-setstripe (1)
command.  The value of
.B 0
indicates that only the root user is allowed to create files with specific
layouts on that client.
If
.I GID
is another value, it means users with the numeric Group ID that can do so.
For example, this could be used to allow an
.I admin
group for administrators, or a
.I setstripe_gid
group for power users, using the numeric values of those groups.
.PP
This parameter only controls the creation of files with specific layouts
on the specific client nodes where it is set, and only for the
.B lfs setstripe
command.  Applications or libraries using lower-level interfaces like
.BR llapi_file_create (3)
or
.BR llapi_layout_file_create (3)
are not restricted by this parameter.
It is intended as a convenience measure for administrators to avoid errors
by inexperienced users, allowing well-behaved applications to work properly.
.SH MODULES
This parameter is in the following modules:
.EX
.B llite.*.enable_setstripe_gid
.EE
.SH EXAMPLES
Disable
.B lfs setstripe
for all users on the
.B testfs
filesystem:
.EX
.RB "mgs# " "lctl set_param -P llite.testfs-*.enable_setstripe_gid=0"
.EE
.PP
Allow only users in the
.B setstripe_grp
group to use this command:
.EX
.RB "client# " "getent group setstripe_grp"
setstripe_grp:942:jsmith,rread
.RB "mgs# " "lctl set_param -P llite.*.enable_setstripe_gid=942"
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.B llite.enable_setstripe_gid
parameter is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.16.0.
.\" Added in commit v2_15_64-103-g5b99b881c4
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs-setstripe (1),
.BR lctl-get_param (8),
.BR lctl-set_param (8)
