.TH ENABLE_REMOTE_DIR 4 "2026-03-10" "Lustre" "Lustre Kernel Parameters"
.SH NAME
enable_remote_dir, enable_remote_dir_gid \- control remote directory creation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY
lctl set_param mdt.\fIFSNAME\fR*.enable_remote_dir=\fIENABLE
.SY
lctl set_param mdt.\fIFSNAME\fR*.enable_remote_dir_gid=\fIGID
.SY
lctl set_param mdt.\fIFSNAME\fR*.enable_striped_dir=\fIENABLE
.YS
.SS PROPERTIES
.TP
.B Access Permissions
.BR 644 | -rw-r--r--
.TP
.B Scope
.br
Per-MDT device.
.TP
.B Config
.br
.BR enable_remote_dir ,
.BR enable_remote_dir_gid ,
and
.B enable_striped_dir
are always present for MDT devices.
.TP
.B Default
.RB enable_remote_dir= 1
.br
.RB enable_remote_dir_gid= 0
.br
.RB enable_striped_dir= 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The boolean
.B enable_remote_dir
parameter controls whether clients can create remote directories that
reference other MDTs within the filesystem.
Explicitly specifying the MDT index for a directory by default also
constrains all subdirectories for that tree to remain on the given MDT,
which can negatively impact MDT space balance if used incorrectly.
If
.I ENABLE
is
.B 1
(or aliases
.BR on " or " true ),
then this functionality is globally enabled. If it is
.B 0
or
.B off
then this functionality is globally disabled.
The boolean
.B enable_striped_dir
parameter controls whether clients can create striped directories that
span multiple MDTs within the filesystem.
DNE striped directories should only be used for large directories that
will directly contain 100k or more files, and can otherwise have a negative
performance impact.
If
.I ENABLE
is
.B 1
(or aliases
.BR on " or " true ),
then this functionality is globally enabled. If it is
.B 0
or
.B off
then this functionality is globally disabled.
The
.B enable_remote_dir_gid
parameter controls which user or group can create both remote and striped
directories.
.PP
The default
.I GID
value of
.B 0
indicates that only the root user is allowed to create these directories,
while
.B \-1
indicates that any user is allowed to create them
If
.I GID
is another value, it means users with the numeric Group ID that can do so.
For example, this could be used to allow an
.I admin
group for administrators, or a
.I dne_dir
group for power users, using the numeric values of those groups.
.PP
The creation of remote directories may optionally be restricted on
specific client nodes by a per-nodemap
.RB ' dne_ops '
RBAC, see
.BR lctl-nodemap-modify (8)
for details.
.SH MODULES
This parameter is in the following modules:
.EX
.B mdt.*.enable_remote_dir
.B mdt.*.enable_remote_dir_gid
.B mdt.*.enable_striped_dir
.EE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Enable remote directory creation for all users on the \fBtestfs\fR filesystem:
.EX
mgs# lctl set_param -P mdt.testfs-*.enable_remote_dir_gid=-1
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.B enable_remote_dir
and
.B enable_remote_dir_gid
parameters are part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.4.0.
.\" Added in commit v2_3_60-28-gbc962bde3b
The
.B enable_remote_dir
parameter is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.12.0.
.\" Added in commit v2_11_56_0-156-g2dae2b8ffb
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs-setdirstripe (1),
.BR mdt.enable_foreign_dir (4),
.BR nodemap.rbac (4),
.BR lctl-nodemap-modify (8),
.BR lctl-set_param (8)
