.TH SPTLRPC.SEND_SEPOL 4 2026-03-29 Lustre "Lustre Kernel Interfaces"
.SH NAME
sptlrpc.send_sepol \- control whether clients send SELinux policy to servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl get_param sptlrpc.send_sepol"
.SY "lctl set_param sptlrpc.send_sepol="
.I ENABLED
.YS
.SS PROPERTIES
.TP
.B Access Permissions
.BR 644 " | " -rw-r--r--
.TP
.B Scope
Client (per-node)
.TP
.B Config
Always
.TP
.B Initial default
.RB sptlrpc.send_sepol= 0
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sptlrpc.send_sepol
controls whether a Lustre client includes its local SELinux policy information
in RPCs sent to servers.
.PP
When SELinux nodemap enforcement is active, the MDS uses the client's reported
policy to decide whether to grant access. Setting
.I ENABLED
to
.B \-1
causes the client to always send its policy, which is required for nodemap-based
SELinux enforcement to work correctly.
.PP
The parameter accepts the following values:
.TP
.B 0
Never send SELinux policy information (default).
.TP
.B \-1
Always send SELinux policy information with every RPC.
.TP
.IR ENABLED " > 0"
Send SELinux policy information and cache it for
.I ENABLED
seconds. The cached value is reused for subsequent RPCs until the cache expires.
.SH MODULES
This parameter is in the following modules:
.EX
.B ptlrpc
.EE
.SH EXAMPLES
Read the current value:
.EX
.RS
.B client# lctl get_param sptlrpc.send_sepol
.RE
.EE
.PP
Always send SELinux policy on this node:
.EX
.RS
.B client# lctl set_param sptlrpc.send_sepol=-1
.RE
.EE
.PP
Persist the setting cluster-wide via the MGS config log. This only needs to be
run once on the MGS; all clients will receive the setting on mount:
.EX
.RS
.B mgs# lctl set_param -P sptlrpc.send_sepol=-1
.RE
.EE
.PP
Send and cache SELinux policy for 300 seconds:
.EX
.RS
.B client# lctl set_param sptlrpc.send_sepol=300
.RE
.EE
.PP
Disable sending SELinux policy:
.EX
.RS
.B client# lctl set_param sptlrpc.send_sepol=0
.RE
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B sptlrpc.send_sepol
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.18.0.
.\" Added in commit v2_17_54
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-set-sepol (8),
.BR sestatus (8)
