.TH LFS-DF 1 2024-08-15 Lustre "Lustre User Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs-df \- report Lustre filesystem disk usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lfs df"
.RB [ -i ]
.RB [ -h | -H ]
.RB [ --lazy | -l ]
.RB [ --no-header | -N ]
.RB [ --only-summary | -s ]
.RB [ --output | -u
.IR FIELD_LIST ]
.RB [ --pool | -p
.IR FSNAME [. POOL ]]
.RB [ --mdt | -m ]
.RB [ --ost | -o ]
.RB [ --verbose | -v ]
.RI [ path ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lfs df
displays filesystem usage information by default for each Lustre
filesystem currently mounted on that node, or for the filesystem
that contains
.I PATH
if given. It displays the current usage and totals for each MDT and
OST separately, as well as a per-filesystem summary that matches
.BR df (1)
output for each filesystem.
.PP
By default
.B lfs df
reports the
.I SPACE
usage of the OSTs (the MDT space usage is shown only for reference).  With
.B -i
it reports the
.I INODE
(object) usage for each target and in the summary.  For ZFS-backed
targets, the
.B IUsed
count accurately reflects the number of in-use objects on each target,
but the
.B Inodes
total and
.B Free
inode counts are
.I ESTIMATED
based on the current average (mean) space used per object on each target,
and may fluctuate over time to reflect the current usage pattern of
the target.  The estimate becomes more accurate as the target becomes
more full, assuming the usage pattern is consistent.
.PP
.B lfs df
may also report additional target status as the last column in the
display, if there are issues with that target.  States include:
.RS 0.3i
.TP
.B D: degraded
The target has a failed drive in the RAID device, or is undergoing
RAID reconstruction.  This state is marked on the server automatically
for ZFS targets via
.BR zed (8),
or a (user-supplied) script that monitors the target device and sets
.BI "'lctl set_param obdfilter." TARGET ".degraded=1'"
on the OST.  This target will be avoided for new allocations, but
will still be used for existing files located there or if there are
not enough non-degraded OSTs to make up a widely-striped file.
.TP
.B N: no-create
The target is configured to deny new OST object creation by the
.BI "'lctl set_param obdfilter." FSNAME -OST XXXX ".no_create=1'"
option, or new subdirectory creation by the
.BI "'lctl set_param obdfilter." FSNAME -MDT XXXX ".no_create=1'"
parameter or
.B '-o no_create'
mount option.  This can be used to add an OST or MDT to the filesystem
without allowing objects to be allocated on it yet, or for other reasons.
.TP
.B R: read-only
The target filesystem is marked read-only due to filesystem
corruption detected by ldiskfs or ZFS.  No modifications are
allowed on this OST, and it needs to have
.BR e2fsck (8)
or
.BR zpool (8) " scrub"
run to repair the underlying filesystem.
.TP
.B S: out-of-space
The target filesystem has less than the minimum required free space and
will not be used for new object allocations until it has more free space.
.TP
.B I: out-of-inodes
The target filesystem has less than the minimum required free inodes and
will not be used for new object allocations until it has more free inodes.
.TP
.B f: flash
The target filesystem is using a flash (non-rotational) storage device.
This lower-case status is only shown in conjunction with the
.B -v
option, since it is not an error condition.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
The various options supported by
.B lfs df
are listed and explained below:
.TP
.BR -h ", " --human-readable
Print output in a human readable format (e.g. 16.3T, 4.25P).
Suffixes are base-2 units (i.e. 1 GiB = 1024 MiB).
.TP
.BR -H ", " --si
Like
.BR -h ,
but suffixes are SI base-10 units (i.e. 1 GB = 1000 MB).
.TP
.BR -i ", " --inodes
Print information about the inode usage and totals for the MDTs and
OSTs rather than space usage.  Note that the
.B Inodes
total,
.BR IUsed ,
and
.B IFree
counts typically reflect the
.I SUM
of values from the MDTs.  If the total number of objects available
on the OSTs is smaller (factoring in the filesystem default
.BR stripe_count ,
as one OST object is used for each stripe in a file)
then the reported
.B Inodes
and
.B IFree
values will be reduced to reflect the
.I MINIMUM
number of files that could potentially be created with the default
stripe count.  The actual total number of files that can be created
may be different.
.TP
.BR -l ", " --lazy
Do not attempt to contact any OST or MDT not currently connected to
the client.  This avoids blocking the
.B lfs df
output if a target is offline or unreachable, and only returns the
space on OSTs that can currently be accessed.
.TP
.BR -m ", " --mdt "[="\fIINDEX\fR]
Filter output to show information on
.B MDT
devices. If
.I INDEX
is specified, it must be attached to the option without a space, like "-m\fIINDEX\fR" or "--mdt=\fIINDEX\fR".
For example: "-m0" or "--mdt=0".
Can be used with
.BR -o
to show both types of devices, which is equivalent to having neither option.
.TP
.BR -N ", " --no-header
Suppress column headers in the output. This is useful for scripting and
automation where only the data values are needed without the header line.
When combined with
.BR --output ,
.BR --ost ", and " --mdt ,
this allows for clean extraction of specific field values.
.TP
.BR -s ", " --only-summary
Display only the filesystem summary line without showing individual MDT and
OST entries. This provides a consolidated view of the total filesystem usage,
Useful for monitoring scripts that only need overall filesystem statistics.
.TP
.BR -o ", " --ost "[="\fIINDEX\fR]
Filter output to show information on
.B OST
devices. If
.I INDEX
is specified, it must be attached to the option without a space, like "-o\fIINDEX\fR" or "--ost=\fIINDEX\fR".
For example: "-o0" or "--ost=0".
Can be used with
.BR -m
to show both types of devices, which is equivalent to having neither option.
.TP
.BR -u ", " --output= \fIFIELD_LIST\fR
Print only the specified fields in a customizable format.
This allows printing only specific fields, avoiding the need for complex
.BR awk (1)
or
.BR grep (1)
parsing to extract values in test scripts and automation.
Headers are shown when no specific OST or MDT index is specified.
When a specific target index is given
(e.g.,
.B -o0
or
.BR -m1 ),
headers are suppressed for easier scripting.
Field aliases are provided to match the column
headings reported by
.BR df (1).
Available fields include:
.RS
.TP
.B source
(alias
.BR device )
Display the UUID of the target device.
.TP
.B size
(alias
.BR total ", " btotal )
Display the total block space available (in KiB by default).
.TP
.B used
(alias
.BR bused )
Display the used block space (in KiB by default).
.TP
.B free
(alias
.BR bfree )
Display the free block space (in KiB by default).
.TP
.B avail
(alias
.BR bavail )
Display the available block space (in KiB by default).
.TP
.B pcent
(alias
.BR usepct ", " bpct ", " pct )
Display the percentage of used block space.
.TP
.B itotal
(alias
.BR inodes )
Display the total number of inodes (in KiB by default).
.TP
.B iused
Display the number of used inodes (in KiB by default).
.TP
.B iavail
(alias
.BR ifree )
Display the number of free inodes (in KiB by default).
.TP
.B ipcent
(alias
.BR iusepct ", " ipct )
Display the percentage of used inodes.
.TP
.B target
Display the mount point path.
.RE
.IP
Fields are displayed in the order specified in
.IR FIELD_LIST .
When using
.BR --output ,
both block and inode fields can be mixed in the same command, allowing
users to see comprehensive statistics in a single view.
.TP
.BR -p ", " --pool= [ \fIfsname\fR .] \fIpool\fR
Limit the usage to report only MDTs and OSTs that are in the specified
.IR POOL .
If multiple filesystems are mounted, list OSTs in
.I POOL
for every filesystem, or limit the display to only a pool for a
specific filesystem if
.I FSNAME.POOL
is given.  Specifying both the fsname and pool like:
.br
.BI "lfs df --pool=" FSNAME.POOL
.br
is equivalent to specifying the mountpoint for the given
.IR FSNAME :
.br
.BI "lfs df --pool=" "pool /mnt/FSNAME"
.TP
.BR -v ", " --verbose
Show deactivated MDTs and OSTs in the listing, along with any
additional status flags for each MDT and OST.  By default, any
MDTs and OSTs that are deactivated by the administrator are not shown.
However, targets that are only temporarily inaccessible are still shown.
.SH EXAMPLES
Lists space usage per OST and MDT for the
.B testfs
filesystem in human readable format:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df -hv /mnt/testfs
UUID                 bytes  Used   Avail Use% Mounted on
testfs-MDT0000_UUID  13.0G  1.2G   11.0G  10% /testfs[MDT:0]
testfs-OST0000_UUID   3.6T  2.9T  585.7G  84% /testfs[OST:0]
testfs-OST0001_UUID   3.6T  3.1T  472.5G  87% /testfs[OST:1] D
testfs-OST0002_UUID   3.6T  3.0T  570.3G  84% /testfs[OST:2] DR
OST0003           : inactive device
testfs-OST0006_UUID   5.4T  4.9T  417.8G  92% /testfs[OST:3]
.P
filesystem_summary:  16.2T 13.8T    2.0T  88% /testfs
.EE
.RE
.PP
The above example output shows that
.B OST0003
is currently temporarily inactive or offline, while
.B OST0004
and
.B OST0005
are not shown at all, either because they are marked permanently offline
by the administrator (via
.BR "lctl set_param -P osc.testfs-OST000[45].active=0" )
or they were never added to the filesystem.  The
.B testfs-OST0001
and
.B testfs-OST0002
targets are currently marked
.BR D egraded
(perhaps they both share the same underlying storage controller),
while
.B testfs-OST0002
is also marked
.BR R ead-only,
after detecting non-recoverable corruption in the backing filesystem.
.PP
List inode usage per OST and MDT for all mounted Lustre filesystems:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df -iH
UUID                Inodes  IUsed  IFree IUse% Mounted on
testfs-MDT0000_UUID 932.2k 884.6k  47.6k  95% /testfs[MDT:0]
testfs-OST0000_UUID 267.5k 179.6k  87.8k  67% /testfs[OST:0]
testfs-OST0001_UUID 268.9k 173.5k  95.4k  64% /testfs[OST:1] D
testfs-OST0002_UUID 267.5k 169.6k  97.9k  63% /testfs[OST:2] DR
OST0003           : inactive device
testfs-OST0006_UUID 426.1k 377.4k  48.7k  88% /testfs[OST:3]
.P
filesystem_summary: 932.1k 884.6k  47.6k  95% /testfs
.EE
.RE
.PP
List space usage for only the
.B ssd
pool of the
.B testfs
filesystem:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df --pool ssd /mnt/testfs
.EE
.RE
.PP
List all MDTs and OSTs for the
.B testfs
filesystem, even if not currently connected:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df -v /mnt/testfs
.EE
.RE
.PP
List space usage for only OST index 1 of the
.B testfs
filesystem:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df -o1 /mnt/testfs
.EE
.RE
.PP
Display custom fields showing both block and inode statistics:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df --output=source,size,used,itotal,iused -h /mnt/lustre
UUID                       bytes        Used      Inodes       IUsed
lustre-MDT0000_UUID       122.1M        1.6M       97.7K         275
lustre-OST0000_UUID       305.8M        1.4M       97.7K         302
lustre-OST0001_UUID       305.8M        1.4M       97.7K         302
\&
filesystem_summary:       611.5M        2.7M       97.7K         275
.EE
.RE
.PP
Display only available space and usage percentages:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df --output=source,avail,pcent,iavail,ipcent /mnt/lustre
UUID                   Available Use%       IFree IUse%
lustre-MDT0000_UUID       112156   2%       99725   1%
lustre-OST0000_UUID       284544   1%       99698   1%
lustre-OST0001_UUID       284544   1%       99698   1%
\&
filesystem_summary:       569088   1%       99725   1%
.EE
.RE
.PP
Display filesystem summary with custom field order:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df --output=pcent,avail,used,size,target /mnt/lustre
Use%   Available        Used   1K-blocks  Mounted on
  2%      112156        1664      125056  /mnt/lustre[MDT:0]
  1%      284544        1400      313104  /mnt/lustre[OST:0]
  1%      284544        1400      313104  /mnt/lustre[OST:1]
.P
  1%      569088        2800      626208  /mnt/lustre
.EE
.RE
.PP
Single field output with headers (all targets):
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df --output=avail /mnt/lustre
Available
    112156
    284544
    284544
.P
    569088
.EE
.RE
.PP
Multiple field output with headers:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df --output=source,avail /mnt/lustre
UUID                   Available
lustre-MDT0000_UUID       112156
lustre-OST0000_UUID       284544
lustre-OST0001_UUID       284544
.P
filesystem_summary:       569088
.EE
.RE
.PP
Multiple field output without headers and filesystem summary:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df --output=source,avail --no-header /mnt/lustre
lustre-MDT0000_UUID       112156
lustre-OST0000_UUID       284544
lustre-OST0001_UUID       284544
.EE
.RE
.PP
OST available space without headers (useful for finding minimum):
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df --output=avail --no-header -o /mnt/lustre
     284544
     284544
.EE
.RE
.PP
Single field for target OST1 (no headers, ideal for scripting):
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df --output=avail --ost=1 /mnt/lustre
     284544
.EE
.RE
.PP
Display only the filesystem summary:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df --only-summary /mnt/lustre
filesystem_summary:       626208        2800      569088   1%  /mnt/lustre
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lfs df
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 1.4.0
.\" Added in commit 1.3.4-1130-g113303973e
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lustre (7)
