.TH LFS-PCC-ATTACH 1 2026-03-19 "Lustre" "Lustre User Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs-pcc-attach \- attach file to local cache filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lfs pcc attach"
.RB [ -rw "] [" --id | -i
.IR ID ]
.IR FILE \ [...]
.SY "lfs pcc attach_fid"
.RB [ -rw "] [" --id | -i
.IR ID ]
.RB { --mnt | -m
.IR MNTPATH }
.IR FID \ [...]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Attach and copy the specified files into the persistent client cache. Use
.B lfs pcc detach
to remove the cached files from PCC either manually, or through automatic
mechanisms for the purpose of the cache space management.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -i ", " --id
The ARCHIVE
.I ID
to choose which backend for the cached
.IR FILE .
If
.I ID
is not specified, use the first archive attached to the mounted
filesystem by default.
.TP
.BR -m ", " --mnt
Specify the Lustre client mountpoint for the file
.IR FID
to be attached.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --readonly
Attach the file in read-only mode.  This is the default.
.TP
.BR -w ", " --write
Attach the file in read-write mode.
.SH EXAMPLES
Attach an existing file into PCC with archive ID 1 and copy data from Lustre
to cache device. Reads from the Lustre file will direct to the PCC-RO copy:
.EX
.RS
.B $ lfs pcc attach -i 1 /mnt/lustre/file
.RE
.EE
.PP
Read-only attach file referenced by FID "0x200000401:0x1:0x0" in filesystem
.B /mnt/lustre
using the first/only cache ID for that mountpoint:
.EX
.RS
.B $ lfs pcc attach_fid -r -m /mnt/lustre 0x200000401:0x1:0x0
.RE
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.B lfs pcc attach
command is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.13.0.
.\" Added in commit v2_12_53-113-gf172b11688
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lfs-pcc (1),
.BR lfs-pcc-detach (1),
.BR lfs-pcc-pin (1),
.BR lfs-pcc-state (1),
.BR llapi_pcc_attach (3),
.BR lctl-pcc (8)
