.TH LFS-MIRROR-EXTEND 1 2025-07-11 Lustre "Lustre User Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs-mirror-extend \- add mirror(s) to an existing file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lfs mirror extend"
.RB [ --bandwidth | --bandwidth-limit | "-W \fIBANDWIDTH_MB" [ MG ]]
.RB [ --fid | -F " [" --lustre-dir = \fILUSTRE_MOUNT_POINT ]]
.RB [ --mirror-count | -N [[ = ] \fIMIRROR_COUNT ]]
.RB [ --no-verify "] [" --non-direct | -D ]
.RB [ --stats | --stats-interval = \fISECONDS ]
.RI [ SETSTRIPE_OPTIONS
.RB "| " -f
.IR VICTIM_FILE ]
.I FILES_FROM
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command adds mirror(s) to existing file(s) specified by \fIFILES_FROM\fR.
.P
The file to be extended can already be a mirrored file, or just a regular
non-mirrored file. If it's a non-mirrored file, the command will convert it
to a mirrored file.
.P
.I FILES_FROM
may be:
.TP
.BR -0 ", " --null
Read file names from stdin by default. Each file name is followed by a NUL char.
Usually is used after a pipeline from
.B 'lfs find --print0'
command.
.TP
.IR FILENAME " [" FILENAME " ...]"
File names are listed on command line.
Multiple file names are separated by space char.
.TP
.BR -0 ", " --null
Read file names from stdin by default. Each file name is followed by a NUL char.
Usually is used after a pipeline from
.B lfs find --print0
command.
.TP
.BR --files-from = \fILIST_FILE
Read file names from file
.IR LIST_FILE .
One line for each file name.
If
.I LIST_FILE
is
.RB ' - ',
read from stdin.
If
.B--null
is specified at the same time,
file names are separated by a NUL char.
.P
The
.I SETSTRIPE_OPTIONS
specify the specific layout for the mirror. These are the same options that are
used by
.BR lfs-setstripe (1).
If
.I SETSTRIPE_OPTIONS
are not specified,
then the stripe options inherited from the previous component will be used.
If
.I VICTIM_FILE
is specified and exists, then the command will merge the layout from that
file as a mirror added to the mirrored file.
After the command is finished, the victim file will be removed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --chunk-size = \fISIZE_MB
The buffer chunk size in MB used to transfer data. It is 1 (MB) by default.
But if
.BR --aio-tasks =0,
the default value is 64 (MB).
.TP
.BR --fid ", " -F
FID(s) are provided from command
.RI line/stdin/ LIST_FILE
instead of file path(s). Option
.BR --lustre-dir =\c
.I LUSTRE_MOUNT_POINT
may be specified at the same time.
.TP
.BR -f ", " --file " " \fIVICTIM_FILE
First, the contents of
.I VICTIM_FILE
will be verified to be the same as
.IR FILENAME .
If they are, the layout of
.I VICTIM_FILE
will be merged as a mirror added to the mirrored file.
Otherwise the layout of
.I VICTIM_FILE
will be unchanged.
However,
.BR --no-verify
can be specified to override this check.
Once the command is complete
.I VICTIM_FILE
will be removed.
This option cannot be specified with
.I SETSTRIPE_OPTIONS
option.
.TP
.BR --lustre-dir = \fILUSTRE_MOUNT_POINT
The mount point of Lustre file system on which FIDs are.
If there is only one mounted Lustre file system, this option is not necessary.
This option must be specified together with
.BR --fid .
.TP
.BR -N ", " --mirror-count [[ = ] \fIMIRROR_COUNT ]
Specifies that the next
.I MIRROR_COUNT
mirrors will have the following layout. This option can be repeated multiple
times to separate mirrors that have different layouts. The
.I MIRROR_COUNT
argument is optional and will default to 1 if not specified. This lets a single
mirror be specified easily with
.BR -N .
The
.BR --mirror-count | -N
option itself is also optional, and if not specified only 1 mirror will be
created.
The
.I MIRROR_COUNT
can be specified with a preceding '=' to indicate the number of
.B total
mirrors desired for the layout, such as
.BI --mirror-count== TOTAL_MIRROR_COUNT
or
.B -N=\c
.IR TOTAL_MIRROR_COUNT .
This will create mirrors until the total
number of mirrors in the layout is at least
.IR TOTAL_MIRROR_COUNT .
This also means that if there are already at least
.I TOTAL_MIRROR_COUNT
mirrors in the layout then no new mirrors will be created.
.TP
.I SETSTRIPE_OPTIONS
These options specify the layout of the mirrors,
they can be a plain layout with specific striping pattern
or a composite layout like Progressive File Layout (PFL) (see
.BR lfs-setstripe (1)).
If
.I SETSTRIPE_OPTIONS
are not specified, then the stripe options inherited
from the previous component will be used. This option cannot be specified with
.B -f
.I VICTIM_FILE
option.
.TP
.BR --no-verify
This option indicates not to verify the mirror(s) from victim file(s) in case
the victim file(s) contains the same data as the original mirrored file. This
option can save siginificant time on file comparison if the file size is large,
but it should only be used when the file contents are known to be the same.
.TP
.BR --non-direct , -D
Use buffered, not
.BR O_DIRECT ,
read and write operations when migrating a file.
This adds CPU and memory overhead for the data copy between kernel and
userspace buffers, but avoids synchronous read and write operations
that may slow down small file operations.
.br
This option cannot be used on encrypted files when the encryption key is not
available. It will result in
.B -ENOKEY
being returned.
.TP
.BR --stats
This option enables progress updates every 5 seconds, in YAML format.
.TP
.BR --stats-interval =\fISTATS_INTERVAL
This option enables progress updates every
.I STATS_INTERVAL
seconds, in YAML format.
.TP
.BR -W ", " --bandwidth " " \fIBANDWIDTH_MB [ MG ]
Limit the read and write bandwidth a mirror extend consumes to no more than
.I BANDWIDTH_MB
MiB/s. An optional suffix can be used to specify units in
.BR M ebibytes
or
.BR G ibibytes
per second.
.SH EXAMPLES
Add 2 mirrors to /mnt/lustre/file1. If file1 is a non-mirrored file, then the
command will convert it to a mirrored file first and then add mirrors. Each
mirror has the same default striping pattern with
.I STRIPE_COUNT
and
.I STRIPE_SIZE
inherited from filesystem-wide default values, and OST
.I POOL_NAME
inherited from parent directory:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs mirror extend -N2 /mnt/lustre/file1
.EE
.RE
.PP
Add 3 PFL mirrors to /mnt/lustre/file1. Each mirror has the same specified PFL
layout:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs mirror extend -N3 -E 1M -c 1 -E 32M -c 4 -S 16M -E eof -c -1 \
/mnt/lustre/file1
.EE
.RE
.PP
Add 3 plain layout mirrors to /mnt/lustre/file1. The first mirror has a single
stripe and 4MB stripe size. The second mirror has two stripes and locates on
OSTs with indices 2 and 3 allocated from the
.B flash
OST pool.
It also has 4MB stripe size inherited from the first mirror.
The third mirror has two stripes and 4MB stripe size inherited from the previous
mirror, and also has inherited OST
.I POOL_NAME
from parent directory:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs mirror extend -N -c 1 -S 4M -N -c 2 -o 2,3 -p flash \
-N -p none /mnt/lustre/file1
.EE
.RE
.PP
Add 5 PFL mirrors to /mnt/lustre/file1. The first and second mirrors have the
same PFL layout. All of the components are allocated from the flash OST pool.
The last three mirrors have the same PFL layout. All of these components have a
stripe size of 16MB and use OSTs in the archive pool:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs mirror extend -N2 -E 4M -c 2 --pool flash -E eof -c 4 -N3 -E 16M -c 4 \
-S 16M --pool archive -E eof -c -1 /mnt/lustre/file1
.EE
.RE
.PP
Merge the layouts from /mnt/lustre/file2 and /mnt/lustre/file3, which contain
the same data as /mnt/lustre/file1, use the layouts as mirrors and add them to
/mnt/lustre/file1 without verification:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs mirror extend --no-verify -N -f /mnt/lustre/file2 -N -f \
/mnt/lustre/file3 /mnt/lustre/file1
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.B lfs mirror extend
command is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.11.0
.\" Added in commit v2_10_55_0-55-g125f98fb5c
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-create (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-delete (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-resync (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-split (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-verify (1),
.BR lfs-setstripe (1)
