.TH LCTL-SNAPSHOT_MODIFY 8 2024-08-14 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-snapshot_modify \- modify Lustre snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl snapshot_modify"
.RB [ -c | --comment
.IR COMMENT ]
.RB { -F | --fsname
.IR FSNAME }
.RB [ -h | --help ]
.RB { -n | --name
.IR SSNAME }
.RB [ -N | --new
.IR NEW_SSNAME ]
.RB [ -r | --rsh
.IR REMOTE_SHELL ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Modify the specified snapshot. The tool loads system configuration from
the file
.B /etc/ldev.conf
as described in the
.BR lctl (8)
.B SNAPSHOT
section. Then, the snapshot pieces are modified on every Lustre target
(MGT/MDT/OST).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -c ", " --comment \ \fICOMMENT
Add comment (if it had not been specified with
.BR snapshot_create )
or change the comment for the given snapshot.
.TP
.BR -F ", " --fsname \ \fIFSNAME
The filesystem name.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
For help information.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --name \ \fISSNAME
The snapshot (to be modified) name must be specified.
.TP
.BR -N ", " --new \ \fINEW_SSNAME
Rename the snapshot to the new name. It follows the general ZFS snapshot name
rules, such as the max length is 256 bytes, cannot conflict with the reserved
names, and so on.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --rsh \ \fIREMOTE_SHELL
Specify a shell to communicate with remote targets. The default value is
.BR ssh .
It is the system admin's duty to guarantee that the specified
.I REMOTE_SHELL
works well among targets without password authentication.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl-snapshot-modify
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.10.0
.\" Added in commit v2_9_54_0-67-gd73849a05e
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-barrier (8),
.BR lctl-lcfg (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-create (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-destroy (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-list (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-mount (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-umount (8)
