.TH LCTL-NODEMAP_FILESET_ADD 8 2025-06-23 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-nodemap_fileset_add \- add a fileset to a nodemap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl nodemap_fileset_add"
or
.SY "lctl nodemap fileset_add"
.RB [ --alt ]
.RB [ --ro ]
.BI --name " NODEMAP_NAME"
.BI --fileset " SUBDIRECTORY"
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nodemap_fileset_add
adds a fileset with a
.I SUBDIRECTORY
path to a nodemap, specified by its
.IR NODEMAP_NAME .
The
.I SUBDIRECTORY
must begin with a slash
.RB (' / ')
and represents a relative path from the root
of the Lustre file system.
.PP
Filesets can be used to provide namespace isolation within the Lustre
file system by explicitly restricting clients of a nodemap to a specific
.BI SUBDIRECTORY
when mounting the client. The restriction depends on whether the fileset is
designated as primary or alternate (using the
.B --alt
option). Further, the fileset can be restricted to be mounted as read-only
using the
.B --ro
option.
Note that the nodemap
.RB ' readonly_mount '
property takes precedence if a fileset is set to read-write which is the
fileset default.
On mounting the Lustre client the following rules apply:
.IP 1.
If the nodemap is inactive or no filesets are defined, no subdirectory
restrictions are applied.
.IP 2.
If the primary fileset is set and no subdirectory is presented when mounting
the Lustre client, the primary fileset's
.BI SUBDIRECTORY
is used as the file system root.
.IP 3.
If any defined fileset (primary or alternate) matches the presented
mounted subdirectory exactly or as a prefix, the subdirectory mount is used
as the file system root.
.IP 4.
If fileset matches in 3, the presented mounting subdirectory is appended to
the primary fileset.
.PP
If no primary fileset is set, only 3 applies.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -n ", " --name " NODEMAP_NAME"
The name of the nodemap that this fileset should be associated with.
.TP
.BR -f ", " --fileset " SUBDIRECTORY"
The fileset to restrict the clients to. The fileset must begin with '/'.
.TP
.BR -a ", " --alt
Indicates that this fileset should be added as an alternate fileset. Without
this option, the fileset is added as the primary fileset. A nodemap is
restricted to a single primary fileset while up to 255 alternate filesets
can be added per nodemap. Duplicate fileset definitions across fileset types
are not allowed.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --ro
Indicates that the fileset should be mounted as read-only (defaults to
read-write if not set).
.SH EXAMPLES
Add a primary fileset to nodemap 'tenant1':
.EX
.B # lctl nodemap_fileset_add --name tenant1 --fileset '/dir0'
.B # lctl nodemap_fileset_add --name tenant1 --fileset '/dir1' --ro
.EE
.PP
Add alternate filesets to different nodemaps:
.EX
.B # lctl nodemap_fileset_add --name tenant1 --fileset '/dir2' --alt
.B # lctl nodemap_fileset_add --name tenant1 --fileset '/dir3' --alt
.B # lctl nodemap_fileset_add --name tenant2 --fileset '/dir10' --alt
.B # lctl nodemap_fileset_add --name tenant2 --fileset '/dir11' --alt --ro
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl nodemap_fileset_add
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.17.0.
.\" Added in commit TODO
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lctl-nodemap-fileset-del (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-fileset-modify (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-new (8),
