.TH LCTL-SNAPSHOT_CREATE 8 2024-08-14 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-snapshot_create \- create Lustre snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl snapshot_create"
.RB [ -b | --barrier " [" on | off ]]
.RB [ -c | --comment
.IR COMMENT ]
.RB { -F | --fsname
.IR FSNAME }
.RB [ -h | --help ]
.RB { -n | --name
.IR SSNAME }
.RB [ -r | --rsh
.IR REMOTE_SHELL ]
.RB [ -t | --timeout
.IR TIMEOUT ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create snapshot with the given name. The tool loads system configuration from
the file
.B /etc/ldev.conf
as described in the
.BR lctl (8)
.B SNAPSHOT
section. Then, the snapshot pieces are created on every Lustre target
(MGT/MDT/OST).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -b ", " --barrier " [" on | off ]
Set write barrier on all MDTs before creating the snapshot. The default value is
.BR on .
If you are confident about the system consistency, or not require the full
consistency and want to avoid blocking applications when creating the snapshot,
then you can specify barrier
.BR off .
That will save time when creating the snapshot. If the barrier is
.BR on ,
then the timeout of the barrier can be specified via
.B -t
option as described in the subsequent section.
.TP
.BR -c ", " --comment \ \fICOMMENT
Add an optional comment to the
.B snapshot_create
request. The comment can include anything to describe what the snapshot is for
or for a reminder. The comment can be shown via
.BR snapshot_list .
.TP
.BR -F ", " --fsname \ \fIFSNAME
The filesystem name.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
For help information.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --name \ \fISSNAME
The snapshot's name must be specified. It follows the general ZFS snapshot name
rules, such as the max length is 256 bytes, cannot conflict with the reserved
names, and so on.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --rsh \ \fIREMOTE_SHELL
Specify a shell to communicate with remote targets. The default value is
.BR ssh .
It is the system admin's duty to guarantee that the specified
.I REMOTE_SHELL
works well among targets without password authentication.
.TP
.BR -t ", " --timeout \ \fITIMEOUT
If write barrier is
.BR on ,
then the
.I TIMEOUT
specifies the write barrier's lifetime in second. The default value is 30.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl-snapshot-create
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.10.0
.\" Added in commit v2_9_54_0-67-gd73849a05e
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-barrier (8),
.BR lctl-lcfg (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-destroy (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-list (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-modify (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-mount (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-umount (8)
