.TH LCTL-CHANGELOG_REGISTER 8 2024-08-13 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-changelog_register \- register changelog user for device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY lctl
.B --device
.I MDT_NAME
.B changelog_register
.RB [ --help | -h ]
.RB [ --mask | -m
.IR MASK ]
.RB [ --nameonly | -n ]
.RB [ --user | -u
.IR USERNAME ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command is used to register a new changelog user on selected device. New
user may set specific
.I MASK
and/or specific unique
.IR username .
Changelog entries will not be purged beyond any registered users' set point.
See also
.B lfs
changelog_clear.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Output brief command usage help.
.TP
.BR -m ", " --mask \fI MASK
Sets per-user changelog
.IR MASK .
Mask is specified as set of keywords in form
.RI [+|-] MASK1 [<,|+|-> MASK2 ...].
Masks are separated by comma or '+' to indicate a mask to be added
and by '-' to indicate mask to be removed.
If mask list is started with '+' or '-' then masks are relative
to the default changelog mask, otherwise mask is absolute.
Possible mask keywords are:
.BR mark ", " creat ", " mkdir ", " hlink ", " slink ", " mknod ", "
.BR unlnk ", " rmdir ", " renme ", " rnmto ", " open ", " close ", "
.BR lyout ", " trunc ", " sattr ", " xattr ", " hsm ", " mtime ", "
.BR ctime ", " atime ", " migrt ", " flrw ", " resync ", " gxatr ", " nopen .
The default changelog mask consists of all masks excluding:
``atime, open, gxatr, nopen''. Both uppercase and lowercase are accepted for
keywords.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --nameonly
The output format modifier. If set then command outputs just changelog user
name in format
.RB' cl\c
.IR ID [- USERNAME ].
Where
.I ID
stands for assigned changelog user
.BR ID .
.TP
.BR -u ", " --user \fI USERNAME
Specific username assigment. Unique name can be assigned to a new changelog
user. Name must start with a letter and consist of letters, digits, '-' and
\'_' symbols with total length limited by 15 symbols.
.SH EXAMPLES
Simple changelog user register on device
.BR testfs-MDT0000 :
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl --device testfs-MDT0000 changelog_register
testfs-MDT0000: Registered changelog userid 'cl1'
.EE
.RE
.PP
Register changelog user with specific name
.BR testname :
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl --device testfs-MDT0000 changelog_register -u testname
lustre-MDT0000: Registered changelog userid 'cl1-testname'
.EE
.RE
.PP
Register changelog user with specific mask:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl --device testfs-MDT0000 changelog_register -m +open,atime,-hlink
lustre-MDT0000: Registered changelog userid 'cl1'
.EE
.RE
.PP
Register changelog user with terse output:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl --device testfs-MDT0000 changelog_register -n
cl1
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl changelog_register
is a subcommand of
.BR lctl (8)
and is distributed as part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 1.7.0
.\" Added in commit 1.6.0-2540-g2c74bfcb7a
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-changelog_deregister (8)
