.TH LCTL-LFSCK_START 8 2024-08-13 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-lfsck_start \- start online Lustre File System Check
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl lfsck_start"
.RB [ -M | --device
.RI { MDT , OST } _DEVICE ]
.RB [ -A | --all ]
.RB [ -c | --create-ostobj [ on | off ]]
.RB [ -C | --create-mdtobj [ on | off ]]
.RB [ -d | --delay-create-ostobj [ on | off ]]
.RB [ -e | --error continue | abort ]
.RB [ -h | --help ]
.RB [ -n | --dryrun [ on | off ]]
.RB [ -o | --orphan ]
.RB [ -r | --reset ]
.RB [ -s | --speed SPEED_LIMIT ]
.RB [ -t | --type
.IR LFSCK_TYPE [, LFSCK_TYPE ...]]
.RB [ -w | --window-size SIZE ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Start LFSCK on the specified MDT or OST device with specified parameters.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -M ", " --device " {"\fIMDT\fR,\fIOST\fR}\fI_DEVICE
The MDT or OST device to start LFSCK/scrub on.
If
.RB " -M "
option is not specified,
it will select the available Lustre device on current server automatically.
But under the following cases you need to specify the device (see
.RB " -M "
option) explicitly:
if there are multiple devices on current server those belong to
different Lustre filesystems, or if
.RB " -A "
option is not specified and there are multiple devices on current server.
.TP
.BR -A ", " --all
Start LFSCK on all available devices in the system by single LFSCK command.
Such LFSCK command can be executed on any MDT device in the system.
.TP
.BR -c ", " --create-ostobj " [" on | off ]
Create the lost OST-object for dangling LOV EA: 'off' (default) or 'on'.
Under default mode, when the LFSCK find some MDT-object with dangling reference,
it will report the inconsistency but will not repair it.
If 'on' is given, then LFSCK will re-create the missed OST-object.
.TP
.BR -C ", " --create-mdtobj " [" on | off ]
Create the lost MDT-object for dangling name entry: 'off' (default) or 'on'.
Under default mode, when the LFSCK find dangling name entry,
it will report the inconsistency but will not repair it.
If 'on' is given, then LFSCK will re-create the missed MDT-object.
.TP
.BR -d ", " --delay-create-ostobj " [" on | off ]
Delay to create the lost OST-object for dangling LOV EA
until orphan OST-objects handled: 'off' (default) or 'on'. If both
.BR " --create-ostobj "
and the delay option are 'on',
then the LFSCK will NOT create the OST-object to repair dangling LOV EA
unless all the OST-objects have been handled.
It can avoid reparing dangling LOV EA incorrectly because of LOV EA corruption.
The side-effect is that as long as one OST does not join the layout LFSCK
or fail to complete the scanning, then reparing dangling LOV EA will be skipped.
For a large system with a lot of OSTs, such condition may be a bit strict.
The default value is 'off'.
.TP
.BR -e ", " --error \ \fIERROR_HANDLE
With error_handle as 'abort' then if the repair of a file is not possible,
then LFSCK will save the current position stop with an error.
Otherwise the default behavior is to 'continue'
if the repair of a file is not possible.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show the usage message.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --dryrun " [" on | off ]
Perform a trial run with no changes made, if 'on' or no argument is given.
Default is 'off', meaning that any inconsistencies found will be repaired.
.TP
.BR -o ", " --orphan
Handle orphan objects, such as orphan OST-objects for layout LFSCK by
linking them under the .../.lustre/lost+found directory.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --reset
Set the current position of object iteration
to the beginning of the specified device.
The non-specified parameters will also be reset to the default.
By default the iterator will resume the scanning
from the last saved checkpoint position,
and other unspecified parameters will be the same as the prior incomplete run.
.TP
.BR -s ", " --speed \ \fISPEED_LIMIT
Set the upper limit of LFSCK processing in objects per second to reduce load
on the servers and storage.
If no value is specified the saved value is used
(if resuming from a checkpoint).
Otherwise the default value of 0 is used,
which means check the filesystem as quickly as possible.
.TP
.BR -t ", " --type \ \fILFSCK_TYPE\fR[,\fILFSCK_TYPE\fR...]
The type of LFSCK checking/repair to execute.
If no type is given and the previous run was incomplete
or internal consistency checks detected an error,
then the same types are used for the next run.
Otherwise, the default is to check all types of consistency.
Any time LFSCK is triggered on an ldiskfs MDT or OST then OI Scrub is run.
Valid types are a comma-separated list of one or more of:
.B scrub
to run only the local OI Scrub on ldiskfs targets,
.B namespace
for FID-in-dirent and linkEA checking on the MDT(s),
.B layout
for MDT-OST cross-reference consistency, and
.B all
to run all of the available check types.
.TP
.BR -w ", " --window-size \ \fISIZE
Specifies the maximum number of in-flight request being processed at
one time. This controls the load placed on remote OSTs when running
.B layout
checks. By default there are at most 1024 outstanding requests.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl-lfsck-start
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.3.0
.\" Added in commit v2_2_59_0-40-g7cecfcffae
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-lfsck-query (8),
.BR lctl-lfsck-stop (8)
