.TH LHBADM 8 2024-08-29 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lhbadm \- Lustre failover utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY lhbadm
.RB { failover | failback }
.IR REASON " ..."
.SY pdsh
.B -g lustre lhbadm status | dshbak -c
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lhbadm
simplifies heartbeat administration on Lustre clusters.
It offers the following operations:
.TP
.B status
Print a single line status message consisting of the heartbeat resource
status a hyphen, and lustre status.
Under normal circumstances, server status should be
.BR local-local .
.TP
.BI failover " REASON " ...
Initiate failover of local services (and foreign if active) to the
failover partner.
The command blocks until the transition is complete, which includes
starting lustre on the partner node.
Initiation and completion of failover is logged to the syslog
.B user.err
.IR facility .
.TP
.BI failback " REASON " ...
Initiate failback of the local services from the failover
partner.  The command blocks until the transition is complete, which
includes starting lustre.
Initiation and completion of failback is logged to the syslog
.B user.err
.IR facility .
.SS HEARTBEAT STATUS VALUES
The heartbeat resource status values returned by
.B lhbadm status
may be one of the following:
.TP
.B local
Heartbeat expects only the local services to be running.
.TP
.B none
Heartbeat expects no services to be running.
.TP
.B all
Heartbeat expects local and foreign services to be running.
.TP
.B foreign
Heartbeat expects only the foreign services to be running.
.TP
.B transition
Resources are in transition.
.SS LUSTRE STATUS VALUES
The lustre status values returned by
.B lhbadm status
may be one of the following:
.TP
.B loaded
Lustre modules are loaded but that's about it.
.TP
.B recovery
One or more Lustre services is in recovery.
.TP
.B unhealthy
Lustre is not healthy.
.TP
.B none
Lustre is not running any services
.TP
.B local
Lustre is running only the local services.
.TP
.B foreign
Lustre is running only the foreign services.
.TP
.B all
Lustre is running both the local and foreign services.
.TP
.B partial
Lustre is partially started and may be running one or more services,
but not exactly the local, foreign, or all sets.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lhbadm
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.3.0
.\" Added in commit 2.2.90-9-g04a38ba7cd
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cl_status (1),
.BR hb_standby (1),
.BR hb_takeover (1)
