.TH LL_DECODE_LINKEA 8 2024-08-28 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
ll_decode_linkea \- display parent FIDs and name of a Lustre file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY ll_decode_linkea
.I FILE
.RI [ FILE ...]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ll_decode_linkea
decodes and prints the Lustre parent FIDs and name of a Lustre file, which
are stored in the "trusted.link" attribute on MDT. This is accessible to
.B ll_decode_linkea
not only through Lustre client, but also when the MDT filesystem is mounted
locally as type ldiskfs for maintenance.
.PP
The "trusted.link" extended attribute is saved when file/directory is created,
and modified when renaming or hard link happens.
.PP
The parent FID is useful in case of MDT corruption. The fsck of ldiskfs can
recover most of the ldiskfs hierarchy, but it might leave some files or
directories under lost+found. The parent FIDs can be used to determine the
right Lustre paths to move them to.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
.B root@mdt1# cd /mnt/mdt/lost+found
.B root@mdt1# ll_decode_linkea #123451 #123452
\&#123451: count 2
    0: [0x200034021:0x2:0x0], name "file1"
    1: [0x200034021:0x1:0x0], name "file1_link"
\&#123452: count 1
    0: [0x200000007:0x1:0x0], name "file2"
.EE
.PP
This shows that there are 2 files in lost+found.
.B ll_decode_linkea
prints all of the parent FIDs of these files.
file1 has two hard links, that is why it has two parent directories.
.B lfs fid2path
could be used to extract the paths of the parents.
.PP
Since "trusted.link" xattr is accessible on Lustre client too,
.B ll_decode_linkea
could also be used on Lustre client.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B ll_decode_linkea
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.9.0
.\" Added in commit v2_8_59_0-28-g11a138cb9d
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lustre (7)
