.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2017, Intel Corporation.
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under the terms of the GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH MKFS.LUSTRE 8 2024-08-28 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
mkfs.lustre \- format a disk for a Lustre service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY mkfs.lustre
.RB { --ost | --mdt | --mgs }
.BR --fsname=\c
.I NAME
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.I DEVICE
.SY mkfs.lustre
.RB { --ost | --mdt | --mgs }
.B --backfstype=zfs
.BR --fsname=\c
.I NAME
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.IR POOL_NAME / DATASET_NAME
.RI [ ZPOOL_SPECIFICATION ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkfs.lustre
is used to format a disk device for use as part of a Lustre
filesystem. After formatting, a disk can be mounted with
.B mount -t lustre ...
to start the Lustre service defined by this command.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --ost
object storage target
.TP
.B --mdt
metadata storage target
.TP
.B --mgs
configuration management service, one per site or filesystem.  This service can
be combined with one
.B --mdt
service by specifying both types.
.TP
.BI --backfstype= FSTYPE
Force a particular format for the backing fs (ldiskfs, zfs).
.TP
.I ZPOOL_SPECIFICATION
Specify the zpool specifications with the following form:
.br
.RI [[ VDEV_TYPE ] " DEVICE " [DEVICE " ...] [" VDEV_TYPE "] ...]"
.TP
.I VDEV_TYPE
Can be one of the following:
.br
.RB { mirror , raidz , raidz2 , raidz3 , cache }
.TP
.IR DEVICE
The linux block device.
.IP
If no vdev_type is given, then the devices are used in a round-robin
(striped) manner. See
.BR zpool (8)
for more details.
.TP
.BI --comment= COMMENT
Set user comment about this disk, ignored by Lustre.
.TP
.BI --device-size= KB
Set device size for loop devices
.TP
.BI --dryrun
Only print what would be done; does not affect the disk
.TP
.BI --failnode= NID \fR,...
Set the NID(s) of a failover partner. This option can be repeated as desired.
Cannot be used with --servicenode.
.TP
.BI --servicenode= NID\fR,...
Set the NID(s) of all service partner. This option treats all nodes as equal
service nodes. Cannot be used with
.BR --failnode .
.TP
.BI --fsname= FILESYSTEM_NAME
The Lustre filesystem this target will be part of. Valid
.IR filesystem_name s
are between 1 and 8 characters long and must only use upper- and lower-case
English letters, numbers, and '\-', or '_' (regexp [-_a\-zA\-Z0\-9]).  All
targets in a single filesystem must specify the same
.IR filesystem_name ,
and it must be unique between all filesystems mounted by a single client
at one time.  Using "lustre" as the filesystem name is discouraged, to avoid
future problems if a client needs to mount two such filesystems, and to
reduce confusion for administrators/users between "lustre" as the
.I filesystem_name
and "lustre" as the literal string that must be used in places for the
.BR filesystem_type .
The
.B --fsname
option is not valid for the MGS, since it may be used for multiple filesystems.
.TP
.BI --index= INDEX
Specify a particular OST or MDT index. Required for all targets other than
the MGS, and must be unique for all targets in the same filesystem. Typically
sequential values starting from 0 are used.  The index parameter may either
be a decimal number, or a hexadecimal number starting with '0x'.
.TP
.BI --mkfsoptions= OPTS
Additional formatting options passed through to the backing filesystem. For
example, options for
.B mke2fs
or
.B zpool
could be set here.
.TP
.BI --mountfsoptions= OPTS
Set persistent mount options that will be used when mounting Lustre targets.
WARNING: unlike earlier versions of
.BR mkfs.lustre ,
this version completely replaces the default mount options
with those specified on the command line,
issuing a warning on stderr if any of the default mount options are omitted.
The defaults for
.I LDISKFS
are:
.TP 10
.B OST:
.I errors=remount-ro,mballoc,extents
.TP
.B MGS/MDT:
.I errors=remount-ro,user_xattr
.PP
.B DO NOT
alter the default mount options unless you know what you are doing.
.TP
.BI --backfs-mount-opts= OPTS
Use these options for mounting backing fs while mkfs.lustre is working.
.TP
.BI --network= NET,...
Network(s) to restrict this OST/MDT to. This option can be repeated as desired.
.TP
.BI --mgsnode= NID,...
Set the NID(s) of the MGS node, required for all targets other than the MGS.
.TP
.BI --param " KEY" = VALUE
Set permanent parameter
.I KEY
to value
.IR VALUE .
This option can be repeated as desired. Typical options might include:
.RS
.I --param sys.timeout=40
.RS
System obd timeout
.RE
.I \--param lov.stripesize=2M
.RS
Default stripe size
.RE
.I \--param lov.stripecount=2
.RS
Default stripe count
.RE
.I --param failover.mode=failout
.RS
Return errors instead of waiting for recovery
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B --quiet
Print less information.
.TP
.B --reformat
Reformat an existing Lustre disk as a new target
.TP
.B --replace
Used to initialize a target with the same
.B --index
as a previously used target if the old target was permanently lost for
some reason (e.g. multiple disk failure or massive corruption).  This
avoids having the target try to register as a new target with the MGS.
.TP
.BI --stripe-count-hint= STRIPES
Specify the expected common number of stripes on a file so that the MDT
inode size can be optimized for the typical use case.
.TP
.BI --force-nohostid
Ignore unset hostid for ZFS import protection. To set hostid either set
spl_hostid parameter for spl.ko or set /etc/hostid, see zgenhostid(8).  To
populate the spl_hostid parameter, spl.ko must be (re)loaded after /etc/hostid
is created.
.TP
.BI --verbose
Print more information.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
Output build version of the mkfs.lustre utility.
.SS NID
A Lustre network identifier (NID) is used to uniquely identify a Lustre network
endpoint by node ID and network type. The format of the NID is:
.IR network_id@network_type .
If a node has multiple network interfaces, it may have multiple NIDs, which must
all be identified so other nodes can choose the NID that is appropriate for
their network interfaces. Typically, NIDs are specified in a list delimited by
commas (,). However, when failover nodes are specified, the NIDs are delimited
by a colon (:) or by repeating a keyword such as
.B --mgsnode=
or
.BR --servicenode= .
.SH EXAMPLES
Combined MGS and MDT for filesystem 'testfs' on node e.g. cfs21:
.RS
.EX
.B # mkfs.lustre --fsname=testfs --index=0 --mdt --mgs /dev/sda1
.EE
.RE
.PP
OST for filesystem 'testfs' on any node using the above MGS:
.RS
.EX
.B # mkfs.lustre --fsname=testfs --index=0 --ost --mgsnode=cfs21@tcp0 /dev/sdb
.EE
.RE
.PP
Combined MGS and MDT for filesystem 'testfs' on failover pair cfs21 and cfs22:
.RS
.EX
.B # mkfs.lustre --fsname=testfs --index=0 --mdt --mgs \
--servicenode=cfs21@tcp0,cfs21ib@o2ib0 \
--servicenode=cfs22@tcp0,cfs22ib@o2ib0 /dev/sda1
.EE
.RE
.PP
OST for filesystem 'testfs' using the above MGS and having a failover partner
cfs24:
.RS
.EX
.B # mkfs.lustre --fsname=testfs --index=1 --ost \
--mgsnode=cfs21@tcp0,cfs21ib@o2ib0:cfs22@tcp0,cfs22ib@o2ib0 \
--failnode=cfs24@tcp0,cfs24ib@o2ib0 /dev/sdb
.EE
.RE
.PP
Standalone MGS on e.g. node cfs22:
.RS
.EX
.B # mkfs.lustre --mgs /dev/sda1
.EE
.RE
.PP
MDT for filesystem 'myfs1' on any node, using the above MGS:
.RS
.EX
.B # mkfs.lustre --fsname=myfs1 --index=0 --mdt --mgsnode=cfs22@tcp0 /dev/sda2
.EE
.RE
.PP
Create zfs pool 'zfspool' on two root vdevs each a mirror of two disks and
create mdt/mgs on filesystem 'zfspool/mdt1':
.RS
.EX
.B # mkfs.lustre --fsname=testfs --index=0 --mdt --mgs zfspool/mdt1 mirror \
/dev/sdb /dev/sdc mirror /dev/sdd /dev/sde
.EE
.RE
.PP
Output build version of the mkfs.lustre utiltiy e.g. 2.15.52_175_ge7aa83d:
.RS
.EX
.B # mkfs.lustre --version
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B mkfs.lustre
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 1.4.0
.\" Added in commit 1.3.4-1130-g113303973e
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lctl (8),
.BR mke2fs (8),
.BR mount.lustre (8),
.BR tunefs.lustre (8),
.BR zpool (8)
