.TH LCTL-NETWORK 8 2024-08-14 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-network \- start or stop an LNet network or set network type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl network"
.RB { up | down }
|
.RB { configure | unconfigure }
|
.RB { tcp | o2ib }
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lctl network
is used to start or stop LNet and LNet configuration on a client, server,
or router.
.B lctl net
is an alias for
.BR "lctl network" .
However,
.B netctl lnet
is the preferred command for configuring and unconfiguring network interfaces.
.P
The Lustre software automatically starts and stops LNet,
but it can also be manually stopped or started in a standalone manner.
This is particularly useful to verify that your networking setup is working
correctly before you attempt to start the Lustre file system,
or necessary for Lustre routers which only need the LND and LNet modules.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B up
Starts LNet. The LNet modules must be loaded first.
.TP
.B down
Stops LNet
.TP
.B configure
Loads LNet configuration
.TP
.B unconfigure
Clears LNet configuration.
This step is necessary for standalone routers to remove
LNet references before the LNet modules can be removed.
.SH NOTES
Since Lustre 2.15.0 the lustre_rmmod script calls
.B lnetctl lnet unconfigure
or
.B lctl network down
command internally to stop the LNet network interfaces.
Otherwise the lustre_rmmod utility does not work if you have manually run the
.B lctl network
.I up
command.
.P
Attempting to remove
.BR lustre (7)
modules prior to stopping the network may result in a crash or an LNet hang.
If this occurs, the node must be rebooted (in most cases). Make sure that the
Lustre network and file system are stopped prior to unloading the modules.
.SH EXAMPLES
To load the module and start LNet:
.RS
.EX
.B # modprobe lnet
.B # lctl network up
LNet configured
.EE
.RE
.PP
To stop LNet and remove the module:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl network down
LNet ready to unload
.B # rmmod lnet
.EE
.RE
.PP
To load LNet configuration in standalone mode:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl network configure
LNet configured
.EE
.RE
.PP
To clear the LNet configuration:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl network unconfigure
LNet ready to unload
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl network
is a subcommand of
.BR lctl (8)
and is distributed as part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 0.6.0
.\" Added in commit 0.0.0-1251-ge772702b4c
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lnetctl (8)
