.TH LCTL-SNAPSHOT_LIST 8 2024-08-14 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-snapshot_list \- query Lustre snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl snapshot_list"
.RB [ -d | --detail ]
.RB { -F | --fsname
.IR FSNAME }
.RB [ -h | --help ]
.RB [ -n | --name
.IR SSNAME ]
.RB [ -r | --rsh
.IR REMOTE_SHELL]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Query the snapshot information, such as fsname of the snapshot, comment,
create time, the latest modification time, including mount status
and other details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -d ", " --detail
List all the information available for each piece of the snapshot on every
target (MGT/MDT/OST). Usually, the information for each piece of the snapshot
are the same unless some error occurred during the snapshot operations, such
as partly modified or mount. This option allows to check related issues.
.TP
.BR -F ", " --fsname  \ \fIFSNAME
The filesystem name.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
For help information.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --name  \ \fISSNAME
The snapshot's name to be queried. If no snapshot name is specified, then all
the snapshots belonging to current Lustre filesystem will be listed.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --rsh  \ \fIREMOTE_SHELL
Specify a shell to communicate with remote targets. The default value is
.BR ssh .
It is the system admin's duty to guarantee that the specified
.I REMOTE_SHELL
works well among targets without password authentication.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl-snapshot-list
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.10.0
.\" Added in commit v2_9_54_0-67-gd73849a05e
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-barrier (8),
.BR lctl-lcfg (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-create (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-destroy (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-modify (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-mount (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-umount (8)
