.TH LCTL-GET_PARAM 8 2024-08-13 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-get_param \- retrieve configuration parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl get_param"
.RB [ --classify | -F ]
.RB [ --header | -H ]
.RB [ --links | -l ]
.RB [ --no-links | -L ]
.RB [ --no-name | -n ]
.RB [ --only-name | -N ]
.RB [ --recursive | -R ]
.RB [ --yaml | -y ]
.IR PARAM_PATH1 " [" PARAM_PATH2 " ...]"
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Get the value of the named Lustre or LNet
.I PARAMETER
on the local node. Parameter names consist of one or more components,
separated by a '.' (period). Each component may be specified by plain text
or by a wildcard in the
.BR glob (7)
format.
When wildcards are used, more than one parameter may match and be returned.
Parameters are often, but not always, of the form
.IR obd_name . obd_instance . parameter_name ,
where
.I obd_name
is one of the OBD object types, like
.BR ldlm ", " llite ", " lmv ", " lov ", " mdc ", " osc ,
etc., and
.I obd_instance
is the name of a Lustre device, like
.BR testfs-OST0000 ,
but may be a specific component, or contain wildcards to match some or all
devices on the node. Many parameters are readable as a regular user, though
some of them are accessible only by the root user for security or
implementation reasons.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -F ", " --classify
Append a '/', '@', or '=' suffix for directories, symlinks,
and writeable parameters, respectively.
.B lctl get_param -NF
is equivalent to
.BR "lctl list_param -F" .
.TP
.BR -H ", " --header
Prefix each parameter value line with the parameter name, as a header.
It also print a line for empty values.
It could be useful when wildcards are used and filtering the output.
.TP
.BR -l ", " --links
Follow symlinks while searching for parameters. (enabled by default)
.TP
.BR -L ", " --no-links
Do not follow symlinks while searching for parameters.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --no-name
Print only the parameter value and not parameter name.
This may be confusing if multiple parameter names are specified,
as the parameters are not identified,
and may not be returned in the order that they are specified.
.TP
.BR -N ", " --only-name
Print only matched parameter names and not the values. This is especially
useful when using patterns. This option is equivalent to
.BR "lctl list_param".
.TP
.BR -R ", " --recursive
Recursively show all of the parameter names below the specified name.
.TP
.BR -y ", " --yaml
Some paramters can be presented in a YAML format but are not by default. This
will format the parameter data in YAML. If the YAML provides a source: field
it can be suppressed with the -n option.
.SH EXAMPLES
Use wildcards to obtain all matching parameters:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl get_param osc.*.max_pages_per_rpc
osc.myth-OST0000-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_pages_per_rpc=1024
osc.myth-OST0001-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_pages_per_rpc=1024
osc.testfs-OST0000-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_pages_per_rpc=1024
osc.testfs-OST0001-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_pages_per_rpc=1024
osc.testfs-OST0002-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_pages_per_rpc=1024
.P
.B # lctl get_param {mdc,osc}.testfs-*.max_rpcs_in_flight
mdc.testfs-MDT0000-mdc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_rpcs_in_flight=16
osc.testfs-OST0000-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_rpcs_in_flight=8
osc.testfs-OST0001-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_rpcs_in_flight=8
osc.testfs-OST0002-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_rpcs_in_flight=8
.EE
.RE
.PP
Use -n to obtain output that can be pipped into further commands:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl get_param -n debug
super warning dlmtrace error emerg rpctrace vfstrace config console
.P
.B # lctl get_param -n devices
0 UP osd-ldiskfs MGS-osd MGS-osd_UUID 4
.EE
.RE
.PP
Some parameters can be shown in a YAML format but require the
.B -y
option to do so:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl get_param -y devices
devices:
- index: 0
  status: UP
  type: osd-ldiskfs
  name: MGS-osd
  uuid: MGS-osd_UUID
  refcount: 4
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl get_param
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 1.7.0
.\" Added in commit 1.6.1-673-g04af22fc24
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-list_param (8),
.BR lctl-set_param (8)
