.TH LCTL-POOL_ADD 8 2024-08-14 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-pool_add \- add OSTs to a named pool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl pool_add"
.RB [ --nowait | -n ]
.IR FSNAME . POOL
.IR OST_INDEX1 " [" OST_INDEX2 ...]
.SY "lctl pool_add"
.RB [ --nowait | -n ]
.IR FSNAME . POOL
.IR OST_RANGE1 " [" OST_RANGE2 ...]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Add one or more OSTs to the pool named
.I POOLNAME
in the filesystem named
.IR FSNAME .
There are several formats that the OSTs can be specified. Simplest is
to just specify a list of
.I OST_INDEX
numbers or OST names. It is also possible to specify an
.I OST_RANGE
expression of the form
.BI [ START - END ]
or
.BI [ START - END / STEP ]
that adds multiple OSTs with index numbers in the range from
.I START
to
.I END
(inclusive), optionally skipping every
.I STEP
index values.
.P
.BR NOTE:
After updating the MGS configuration, this command tries to wait and
check if pools are updated on a client.
If the MGS is on a separate node from the MDS, a Lustre client must
be mounted on the MGS node while the
.B lctl
commands are being run for this. Otherwise, the client check is
skipped.
.P
The OST pool can be used by
.BR lfs-setstripe (1)
to specify the OSTs on which new files can be created, and
.BR lfs-find (1)
to locate files that were initially created on the specified
.IR poolname .
Note however, that the OSTs that make up a specific pool may change
over time, and it is the
.I poolname
used at creation time that is stored on each file, not necessarily
OSTs that are in the current pool. As well,
.BR lfs-df (1)
can show only the free space or inodes in a named pool.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -n ", " --nowait
Do not wait and check if pool is updated on a client. This is useful
when calling a lot of "
.B lctl
pool_*" in a row. This avoids revoking the clients "CONFIG" lock for each
command (by default clients retake their lock and update their configurations
in a delay between 5-10s).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Create a pool named
.B local
in the
.B testfs
filesystem:
.RS 8
.EX
.B # lfs pool_new testfs.local
.EE
.RE
.PP
Add OSTs numbered 12, 13, and 14 to the
.B testfs.local
pool:
.RS 8
.EX
.B # lfs pool_add testfs.local 12 13 14
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl pool_add
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 1.7.0
.\" Added in commit 1.6.0-1808-g665e36b780
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs-df (1),
.BR lfs-find (1),
.BR lfs-setstripe (1),
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-pool_new (8)
