.TH LCTL-SNAPSHOT_MOUNT 8 2024-08-14 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-snapshot_mount \- mount Lustre snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl snapshot_mount"
.RB { -F | --fsname
.IR FSNAME }
.RB [ -h | --help ]
.RB { -n | --name
.IR SSNAME}
.RB [ -r | --rsh
.IR REMOTE_SHELL ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mount the specified snapshot on the servers. As a read-only filesystem,
mounted snapshots cannot be renamed.
It is the user's duty to mount client (must be mounted in read-only mode
with "-o ro") to the snapshot when needed.
.B NOTE:
the snapshot has its own fsname that is different from the original
filesystem fsname, it can be queried via
.BR snapshot_list .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -F ", " --fsname \ \fIFSNAME
The filesystem name.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
For help information.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --name \ \fISSNAME
The snapshot (to be mounted) name must be specified.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --rsh \ \fIREMOTE_SHELL
Specify a shell to communicate with remote targets. The default value is
.BR ssh .
It is the system admin's duty to guarantee that the specified
.I REMOTE_SHELL
works well among targets without password authentication.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl-snapshot-mount
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.10.0
.\" Added in commit v2_9_54_0-67-gd73849a05e
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-barrier (8),
.BR lctl-lcfg (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-create (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-destroy (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-list (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-modify (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-umount (8)
