.TH lctl 8 "2017 Jan 12" Lustre "configuration utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl \- Low level Lustre filesystem configuration utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B lctl
.br
.B lctl --device <devno> <command [args]>
.br
.B lctl --version
.br
.B lctl --list-commands
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lctl
is used to directly control Lustre via an ioctl interface, allowing
various configuration, maintenance, and debugging features to be accessed.

.B lctl
can be invoked in interactive mode by issuing lctl command. After that, commands are issued as below. The most common commands in lctl are
.BR dl ,
.BR dk ,
.BR device ,
.B network
.IR <up/down> ,
.BR list_nids ,
.B ping
.IR nid ,
.BR help ,
.BR quit .

To get a complete listing of available commands, type
.B --list-commands
at the lctl prompt.  To get basic help on the meaning and syntax of a
command, type
.B help
.I command
.  Command completion is activated with the TAB key, and command history is available via the up- and down-arrow keys.

For non-interactive use, one uses the second invocation, which runs command after connecting to the device.

.SS Network Configuration
.TP
.BR network " <" up / down >|< tcp / o2ib >
Start or stop LNET, or select a network type for other
.I lctl
LNET commands
.TP
.BI list_nids
Print all Network Identifiers on the local node. LNET must be running.
.TP
.BI which_nid " <nidlist>"
From a list of nids for a remote node, show which interface communication
will take place on.
.TP
.BI replace_nids " <devicename> <nid1>[,nid2,nid3 ...]"
Replace the LNET Network Identifiers for a given device,
as when the server's IP address has changed.
This command must be run on the MGS node.
Only MGS server should be started (command execution returns error
in another cases). To start the MGS service only:
mount -t lustre <MDT partition> -o nosvc <mount point>
Note the replace_nids command skips any invalidated records in the configuration log.
The previous log is backed up with the suffix '.bak'.
.TP
.BI ping " <nid> timeout"
Check LNET connectivity via an LNET ping. This will use the fabric
appropriate to the specified NID. By default lctl will attempt to
reach the remote node up to 120 seconds and then timeout. To disable
the timeout just specify an negative timeout value.
.TP
.BI interface_list
Print the network interface information for a given
.B network
type.
.TP
.BI peer_list
Print the known peers for a given
.B network
type.
.TP
.BI conn_list
Print all the connected remote NIDs for a given
.B network
type.
.TP
.BI route_list
Print the complete routing table.
.PP
.SS Device Selection
.TP
.BI device " <devname> "
This will select the specified OBD device.  All other commands depend on the device being set.
.TP
.BI device_list
Show all the local Lustre OBDs. AKA
.B dl
.PP
.SS Device Operations
.TP
.BI list_param " [-F|-R] <param_search ...>"
List the Lustre or LNet parameter name
.B -F
Add '/', '@' or '=' for dirs, symlinks and writeable files, respectively.
.br
.B -R
Recursively list all parameters under the specified parameter search string. If
.I param_search
is unspecified, all the parameters will be shown.
.br
.B Examples:
.br
.B
# lctl list_param ost.*
.br
  ost.OSS
.br
  ost.num_refs
.br
.B
# lctl list_param -F ost.* debug
.br
  ost.OSS/
.br
  ost.num_refs
.br
  debug=
.br
.B
# lctl list_param -R mdt
.br
  mdt
.br
  mdt.lustre-MDT0000
.br
  mdt.lustre-MDT0000.capa
.br
  mdt.lustre-MDT0000.capa_count
.br
  mdt.lustre-MDT0000.capa_key_timeout
.br
  mdt.lustre-MDT0000.capa_timeout
.br
  mdt.lustre-MDT0000.commit_on_sharing
.br
  mdt.lustre-MDT0000.evict_client
.br
  ...
.TP
.BI get_param " [-F|-n|-N|-R] <parameter ...>"
Get the value of Lustre or LNET parameter.
.br
.B -F
When -N specified, add '/', '@' or '=' for directories, symlinks and writeable files, respectively.
.br
.br
.B -n
Print only the value and not parameter name.
.br
.B -N
Print only matched parameter names and not the values. (Especially useful when using patterns.)
.br
.B -R
Print all of the parameter names below the specified name.
.br
.B Examples:
.br
.B
# lctl get_param ost.*
.br
  ost.OSS
.br
  ost.num_refs
.br
.B
# lctl get_param -n debug timeout
.br
  super warning dlmtrace error emerg ha rpctrace vfstrace config console
.br
  20
.br
.B
# lctl get_param -N ost.* debug
.br
  ost.OSS
.br
  ost.num_refs
.br
  debug
.br
lctl "get_param -NF" is equivalent to "list_param -F".
.TP
.BI set_param " [-n] [-P] [-d] <parameter=value ...>"
Set the value of Lustre or LNET parameter.
.br
.B -n
Disable printing of the key name when printing values.
.br
.B -P
Set the parameter permanently, filesystem-wide.
This parameters are only visible to 2.5.0 and later clients, older clients will not see these parameters.
.br
.B -d
Remove the permanent setting (only with -P option)
.br
.B Examples:
.br
.B
# lctl set_param fail_loc=0 timeout=20
.br
  fail_loc=0
.br
  timeout=20
.br
.B
# lctl set_param -n fail_loc=0 timeout=20
.br
  0
.br
  20
.br
.B
# lctl set_param -P osc.*.max_dirty_mb=32
.br
.TP
.BI conf_param " [-d] <device|fsname>.<parameter>=<value>"
Set a permanent configuration parameter for any device via the MGS.  This
command must be run on the MGS node.
.br
.B -d <device|fsname>.<parameter>
Delete a parameter setting (use the default value at the next restart).  A null value for <value> also deletes the parameter setting.
.br
.B Parameters:
.br
All of the writable parameters under
.B lctl list_param
(e.g.
.I lctl list_param -F osc.*.* | grep =
) can be permanently set using
.B lctl conf_param
, but the format is slightly different.  For conf_param, the device is specified first, then the obdtype. (See examples below.)  Wildcards are not supported.
.br
Additionally, failover nodes may be added (or removed), and some system-wide parameters may be set as well (sys.at_max, sys.at_min, sys.at_extra, sys.at_early_margin, sys.at_history, sys.timeout, sys.ldlm_timeout.)  <device> is ignored for system wide parameters.
.br
.B Examples:
.br
# lctl conf_param testfs.sys.at_max=1200
.br
# lctl conf_param testfs.llite.max_read_ahead_mb=16
.br
# lctl conf_param testfs-MDT0000.lov.stripesize=2M
.br
# lctl conf_param lustre-OST0001.osc.active=0
.br
# lctl conf_param testfs-OST0000.osc.max_dirty_mb=29.15
.br
# lctl conf_param testfs-OST0000.ost.client_cache_seconds=15
.br
# lctl conf_param testfs-OST0000.failover.node=1.2.3.4@tcp1
.TP
.BI activate
Reactivate an import after deactivating, below.  This setting is only effective until the next restart (see
.B conf_param
).
.TP
.BI deactivate
Deactivate an import, in particular meaning do not assign new file stripes
to an OSC.  This command should be used on the OSC in the MDT LOV
corresponding to a failed OST device, to prevent further attempts at
communication with the failed OST.
.TP
.BI abort_recovery
Abort the recovery process on a restarting MDT or OST device
.PP
.SS Changelogs
.TP
.BI changelog_register " [-n]"
Register a new changelog user for a particular device.  Changelog entries
will not be purged beyond any registered users' set point. (See lfs changelog_clear.)
.br
.B -n
Print only the ID of the newly registered user.
.TP
.BI changelog_deregister " <id>"
Unregister an existing changelog user.  If the user's "clear" record number
is the minimum for the device, changelog records will be purged until the
next minimum.
.PP
.SS Nodemap
An identity mapping feature that facilitates mapping of client UIDs and GIDs to
local file system UIDs and GIDs, while maintaining POSIX ownership, permissions,
and quota.

While the nodemap feature is enabled, all client file system access is subject
to the nodemap identity mapping policy, which consists of the 'default' catchall
nodemap, and any user-defined nodemaps. The 'default' nodemap maps all client
identities to 99:99 (nobody:nobody). Administrators can define nodemaps for a
range of client NIDs which map identities, and these nodemaps can be flagged as
 'trusted' so identities are accepted without translation, as well as flagged
as 'admin' meaning that root is not squashed for these nodes.

Note: In the current phase of implementation, to use the nodemap functionality
you only need to enable and define nodemaps on the MDS. The MDSes must also be
in a nodemap with the admin and trusted flags set. To use quotas with nodemaps,
you must also use set_param to enable and define nodemaps on the OSS (matching
what is defined on the MDS). Nodemaps do not currently persist, unless you
define them with set_param and use the -P flag. Note that there is a hard limit
to the number of changes you can persist over the lifetime of the file system.

See also:

.PP
\fBlctl-nodemap-activate\fR(8)
.RS 4
Activate/deactivate the nodemap feature.
.RE
.PP
\fBlctl-nodemap-add\fR(8)
.RS 4
Add a new nodemap, to which NID ranges, identities, and properties can be added.
.RE
.PP
\fBlctl-nodemap-del\fR(8)
.RS 4
Delete an existing nodemap.
.RE
.PP
\fBlctl-nodemap-add-range\fR(8)
.RS 4
Define a range of NIDs for a nodemap.
.RE
.PP
\fBlctl-nodemap-del-range\fR(8)
.RS 4
Delete an existing NID range from a nodemap.
.RE
.PP
\fBlctl-nodemap-add-idmap\fR(8)
.RS 4
Add a UID or GID mapping to a nodemap.
.RE
.PP
\fBlctl-nodemap-del-idmap\fR(8)
.RS 4
Delete an existing UID or GID mapping from a nodemap.
.RE
.PP
\fBlctl-nodemap-modify\fR(8)
.RS 4
Modify a nodemap property.
.RE

.SS LFSCK
An on-line Lustre consistency check and repair tool. It is used for totally
replacing the old lfsck tool for kinds of Lustre inconsistency verification,
including: corrupted or lost OI mapping, corrupted or lost link EA, corrupted
or lost FID in name entry, dangling name entry, multiple referenced name entry,
unmatched MDT-object and name entry pairs, orphan MDT-object, incorrect
MDT-object links count, corrupted namespace, corrupted or lost lov EA, lost
OST-object, multiple referenced OST-object, unmatched MDT-object and OST-object
pairs, orphan OST-object, and so on.

See also:

.PP
\fBlctl-lfsck-start\fR(8)
.RS 4
Start LFSCK on the specified MDT or OST device with specified parameters.
.RE
.PP
\fBlctl-lfsck-stop\fR(8)
.RS 4
Stop LFSCK on the specified MDT or OST device.
.RE
.PP
\fBlctl-lfsck-query\fR(8)
.RS 4
Get the LFSCK global status via the specified MDT device.
.RE
.SS BARRIER
The tools set for write (modify) barrier on all MDTs.
.TP
.B barrier_freeze \fR<fsname> [timeout]
.br
Set write barrier on all MDTs. The barrier_freeze command will not return
until the barrier is set (frozen) or failed. With the write barrier set,
any subsequent metadata modification will be blocked until the barrier is
thawed or expired. The barrier lifetime is started when triggering
barrier_freeze, and will be terminated when barrier thawed. To avoid the
system being frozen for very long time if miss/fail to call barrier_thaw,
you can specify its lifetime via the 'timeout' parameter in second, the
default value is 60 (seconds). If the barrier is not thawed before that,
it will be expired automatically.
A barrier_freeze can only succeed when all registered MDTs are available.
If some MDT has ever registered but become offline, then barrier_freeze
will fail. To check and update current status of MDTs, see the command
barrier_rescan.
.TP
.B barrier_thaw \fR<fsname>
.br
Reset write barrier on all MDTs. With the write barrier thawed, all blocked
metadata modifications (by the former barrier_freeze) will be handled normally.
.TP
.B barrier_stat \fR<fsname>
.br
Query the write barrier status, the possible status and related meanings are
as following:
.br
  'init': has never set barrier on the system
  'freezing_p1': in the first stage of setting the write barrier
  'freezing_p2': in the second stage of setting the write barrier
  'frozen': the write barrier has been set successfully
  'thawing': in thawing the write barrier
  'thawed': the write barrier has been thawed
  'failed': fail to set write barrier
  'expired': the write barrier is expired
  'rescan': in scanning the MDTs status, see the command barrier_rescan
  'unknown': other cases
.br
If the barrier is in 'freezing_p1', 'freezing_p2' or 'frozen' status, then
the left lifetime will be returned also.
.TP
.B barrier_rescan \fR<fsname> [timeout]
.br
Scan the system to check which MDTs are active. The status of the MDTs is
required because a barrier_freeze will be unsuccessful if any of the MDTs
are permenantly offline. During barrier_rescan, the MDT status is updated.
If an MDT does not respond the barrier_rescan within the given "timeout"
seconds (where the default value is 60 seconds), then it will be marked
as unavailable or inactive.

.SS SNAPSHOT
ZFS backend based snapshot tools set. The tool loads system configuration
from the file /etc/ldev.conf on the MGS, and call related ZFS commands to
maintain Lustre snapshot pieces on all targets (MGS/MDT/OST).
The configuration file /etc/ldev.conf is not only for snapshot, but also
for other purpose. The format is:
  <host> foreign/- <label> <device> [journal-path]/- [raidtab]

The format of <label> is:
  fsname-<role><index> or <role><index>

The format of <device> is:
  [md|zfs:][pool_dir/]<pool>/<filesystem>

Snapshot only uses the fields <host>, <label> and <device>.
.br
.B Example:
.br
.B
# cat /etc/ldev.conf
.br
 host-mdt1 - myfs-MDT0000 zfs:/tmp/myfs-mdt1/mdt1
 host-mdt2 - myfs-MDT0001 zfs:myfs-mdt2/mdt2
 host-ost1 - OST0000 zfs:/tmp/myfs-ost1/ost1
 host-ost2 - OST0001 zfs:myfs-ost2/ost2

For old snasphot tools, the configration is in /etc/lsnapshot/${fsname}.conf,
the format is as following (per target, per line):
  <host> <pool_dir> <pool> <local_filesystem> <role(,s)> <index>
.br
.B Examples:
.br
.B
# cat /etc/lsnapshot/testfs.conf
.br
  VM6_1 /tmp testfs-mdt1 mdt1 MGS,MDT	0
  VM6_2 /tmp testfs-mdt2 mdt2 MDT	1
  VM6_3 /tmp testfs-ost1 ost1 OST	0
  VM6_3 /tmp testfs-ost2 ost2 OST	1
  VM6_4 /tmp testfs-ost3 ost3 OST	2
  VM6_4 /tmp testfs-ost4 ost4 OST	3

.TP
.B snapshot_create \fR[-b | --barrier [on | off]] [-c | --comment comment]
         \fR<-F | --fsname fsname> [-h | --help] <-n | --name ssname>
         \fR[-r | --rsh remote_shell] [-t | --timeout timeout]
.br
Create snapshot with the given name.
.TP
  -b, --barrier [on | off]
Set write barrier on all MDTs before creating the snapshot. The default behavior
is 'on'. If you are confident about the system consistency, or you do not care
about the system consistency when create the snapshot, then you can specify
barrier 'off'. That will save your time of creating the snapshot. If the barrier
is 'on', then the timeout of the barrier can be specified via '-t' option as
described in the subsequent section.
.TP
  -c, --comment <comment>
Add an optional comment to the snapshot_create request. The comment can include
anything to describe what the snapshot is for or for reminder. The comment can
be shown via snapshot_list.
.TP
  -F, --fsname
The filesystem name.
.TP
  -h, --help
For help information.
.TP
  -n, --name <ssname>
The snapshot's name must be specified. It follows the general ZFS snapshot name
rules, such as the max length is 256 bytes, cannot be conflict with the reserved
names, and so on.
.TP
  -r, --rsh <remote_shell>
Specify a shell to communicate with remote targets. The default value is 'ssh'.
It is the system admin's duty to guarantee that the specified 'remote_shell'
works well among targets without password authentication.
.TP
  -t, --timeout <timeout>
If write barrier is 'on', then the 'timeout' specified the write barrier's
lifetime in second. The default vaule is 60 (seconds).
.TP
.B snapshot_destroy \fR[-f | --force] <-F | --fsname fsname> [-h | --help]
          \fR<-n | --name ssname> [-r | --rsh remote_shell]
.br
Destroy the specified snapshot.
.TP
  -f, --force
Destory the specified snapshot by force. If the snapshot is mounted, it will be
umounted firstly, then destroyed. Even if some pieces of the snapshot are lost
or broken for some reason(s), the remained parts of the snapshot still can be
destroyed with this option specified.
.TP
  -F, --fsname
The filesystem name.
.TP
  -h, --help
For help information.
.TP
  -n, --name <ssname>
The snapshot (to be destroyed) name must be specified.
.TP
  -r, --rsh <remote_shell>
Specify a shell to communicate with remote targets. The default value is 'ssh'.
It is the system admin's duty to guarantee that the specified 'remote_shell'
works well among targets without password authentication.
.TP
.B snapshot_modify \fR[-c | --comment comment] <-F | --fsname fsname>
         \fR[-h | --help] <-n | --name ssname> [-N | --new new_ssname]
         \fR[-r | --rsh remote_shell]
.br
Modify the specified snapshot.
.TP
  -c, --comment <comment>
Add comment (if it has not been specified when snapshot_create) or change the
comment for the given snapshot.
.TP
  -F, --fsname
The filesystem name.
.TP
  -h, --help
For help information.
.TP
  -n, --name <ssname>
The snapshot (to be modified) name must be specified.
.TP
  -N, --new <new_ssname>
Rename the snapshot to the new name. It follows the general ZFS snapshot name
rules, such as the max length is 256 bytes, cannot be conflict with the reserved
names, and so on.
.TP
  -r, --rsh <remote_shell>
Specify a shell to communicate with remote targets. The default value is 'ssh'.
It is the system admin's duty to guarantee that the specified 'remote_shell'
works well among targets without password authentication.
.TP
.B snapshot_list \fR[-d | --detail] <-F | --fsname fsname> [-h | --help]
       \fR[-n | --name ssname] [-r | --rsh remote_shell]
.br
Query the snapshot information, such as fsname of the snapshot, comment,
create time, the latest modification time, whether mounted or not, and so on.
.TP
  -d, --detail
List all the information available for each piece of the snapshot on each
target. Usually, the information for each piece of the snapshot are the same
unless an error occurred during the snapshot operations, such as partly
modification or mount. This option allow to check related issues.
.TP
  -F, --fsname
The filesystem name.
.TP
  -h, --help
For help information.
.TP
  -n, --name <ssname>
The snapshot's name to be queried. If no name is specified, then all the
snapshots belong to current Lustre filesystem will be listed.
.TP
  -r, --rsh <remote_shell>
Specify a shell to communicate with remote targets. The default value is 'ssh'.
It is the system admin's duty to guarantee that the specified 'remote_shell'
works well among targets without password authentication.
.TP
.B snapshot_mount \fR<-F | --fsname fsname> [-h | --help] <-n | --name ssname>
        \fR[-r | --rsh remote_shell]
.br
Mount the specified snapshot on the servers. Be as read only mode Lustre
filesystem, if the snapshot is mounted, then it cannot be renamed. It is
the user's duty to mount client (must as read only mode "-o ro") to the
snapshot when need.
NOTE: the snapshot has its own fsname that is different from the original
filesystem fsname, it can be queried via snapshot_list.
.TP
  -F, --fsname
The filesystem name.
.TP
  -h, --help
For help information.
.TP
  -n, --name <ssname>
The snapshot (to be mounted) name must be specified.
.TP
  -r, --rsh <remote_shell>
Specify a shell to communicate with remote targets. The default value is 'ssh'.
It is the system admin's duty to guarantee that the specified 'remote_shell'
works well among targets without password authentication.
.TP
.B snapshot_umount \fR<-F | --fsname fsname> [-h | --help] <-n | --name ssname>
         \fR[-r | --rsh remote_shell]
.br
Umount the specified snapshot.
.TP
  -F, --fsname
The filesystem name.
.TP
  -h, --help
For help information.
.TP
  -n, --name <ssname>
The snapshot (to be umounted) name must be specified.
.TP
  -r, --rsh <remote_shell>
Specify a shell to communicate with remote targets. The default value is 'ssh'.
It is the system admin's duty to guarantee that the specified 'remote_shell'
works well among targets without password authentication.
.SS Debug
.TP
.BI debug_daemon
Start and stop the debug daemon, and control the output filename and size.
.TP
.BI debug_kernel " [file] [raw]"
Dump the kernel debug buffer to stdout or file.
.TP
.BI debug_file " <input> [output]"
Convert kernel-dumped debug log from binary to plain text format.
.TP
.BI clear
Clear the kernel debug buffer.
.TP
.BI mark " <text>"
Insert marker text in the kernel debug buffer.
.TP
.BI filter " <subsystem id/debug mask>"
Filter kernel debug messages by subsystem or mask.
.TP
.BI show " <subsystem id/debug mask>"
Show specific type of messages.
.TP
.BI debug_list " <subs/types>"
List all the subsystem and debug types.
.TP
.BI modules " <path>"
Provide gdb-friendly module information.

.SH OPTIONS
The following options can be used to invoke lctl.
.TP
.B --device
The device to be used for the operation. This can be specified by name or
number. See
.B device_list
.TP
.B --ignore_errors | ignore_errors
Ignore errors during script processing
.TP
.B lustre_build_version
Output the build version of the Lustre kernel modules
.TP
.B --version
Output the build version of the lctl utility
.TP
.B --list-commands
Output a list of the commands supported by the lctl utility
.TP
.B help
Provides brief help on the various arguments
.TP
.B exit/quit
Quit the interactive lctl session

.SH EXAMPLES
# lctl
.br
lctl > dl
  0 UP mgc MGC192.168.0.20@tcp bfbb24e3-7deb-2ffa-eab0-44dffe00f692 5
  1 UP ost OSS OSS_uuid 3
  2 UP obdfilter testfs-OST0000 testfs-OST0000_UUID 3
.br
lctl > dk /tmp/log
Debug log: 87 lines, 87 kept, 0 dropped.
.br
lctl > quit

.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl
is part of the
.BR Lustre (7)
filesystem package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lustre (7),
.BR mkfs.lustre (8),
.BR mount.lustre (8),
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-lfsck-start (8),
.BR lctl-lfsck-stop (8),
.BR lctl-lfsck-query (8),
.BR lctl-llog_catlist (8),
.BR lctl-llog_info (8),
.BR lctl-llog_print (8),
.BR lctl-network (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-activate (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-add-idmap (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-add-range (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-add (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-del-idmap (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-del-range (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-del (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-modify (8),
.BR lfs (1)
