.TH LCTL-LLOG_CATLIST 8 "2020-06-12" Lustre "configuration utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-llog_catlist \- list Lustre configuration log files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lctl
[--device <\fIdevice\fR>]
.B llog_catlist
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lctl llog_catlist
is used to list the configuration log files on the MGS, or other target.
This is useful to find the names of all the configuration files available.
The
.IR fsname -client
logs contains configuration records for the client nodes, the
.IR fsname -MDT xxxx
logs contain records for the MDT(s), the
.IR fsname -OST xxxx
logs contain records for the OSTs.  The
.B lctl conf_param
parameters are stored in these log files for the specified filesystem.  The
.B params
log file contains the
.B lctl set_param -P
parameters for all filesystems serviced by this MGS.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --device \fIdevice\fR
The
.I device
to be used. By default MGS device is used for this operation.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
To list all of the configuration logs on the MGS:
.br
# lctl llog_catlist
.br
config_log: testfs-OST0000
.br
config_log: testfs-MDT0000
.br
config_log: testfs-OST0001
.br
config_log: testfs-client
.br
config_log: params
.br
.TP
To list all of the recovery llog files on the MGS:
.br
# lctl --device testfs-MDT0000 llog_catlist
.br
catalog_log: [0x5:0x1:0x0]:0
.br
catalog_log: [0x6:0x1:0x0]:0
.br
catalog_log: [0x7:0x1:0x0]:0
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl llog_catlist
is a subcommand of
.BR lctl (8)
and is distributed as part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-llog_cancel (8),
.BR lctl-llog_info (8),
.BR lctl-llog_print (8)
