.TH LCTL-LIST_PARAM 8 2024-08-13 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-list_param \- list configuration parameter names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl list_param"
.RB [ --dshbak | -b ]
.RB [ --color | -c ]
.RB [ --dir-only | -D ]
.RB [ --classify | -F ]
.RB [ --links | -l ]
.RB [ --no-links | -L ]
.RB [ --merge | -m ]
.RB [ --no-merge | -M ]
.RB [ --path | -p ]
.RB [ --readable | -r ]
.RB [ --recursive | -R ]
.RB [ --tunable | -t ]
.RB [ --writeable | -w ]
.IR PARAM_PATH1 " [" PARAM_PATH2 " ...]"
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
List the Lustre or LNet parameter name(s) matching
.IR param_search .
The parameter name(s) may contain wildcards using
.BR glob (3)
pathname patterns.
.SH OPTIONS
The various options supported by
.BR lctl list_param
are listed and explained below:
.TP
.BR -b ", " --dshbak
Aggregate parameters with wildcards whenever a device number appears in the
parameter name.
By default --merge is enabled with this option to merge the simplified names.
Specify --no-merge if you want the parameter names with wildcards but do not
want them to be merged.
.TP
.BR -c ", " --color=auto|always|never
Use one of auto|always|never as the rule of when to apply color. The default is
auto which will display color only when the output is a terminal.
.TP
.BR -D ", " --dir-only
Only list directories.
.TP
.BR -F ", " --classify
Append '/', '@' or '=' for dirs, symlinks and writeable files, respectively.
.TP
.BR -l ", " --links
Follow symlinks while searching for parameters. (enabled by default)
.TP
.BR -L ", " --no-links
Do not follow symlinks while searching for parameters.
.TP
.BR -m ", " --merge
Merge all parameters that have the same name such that only one will be shown.
Enabled by default.
.TP
.BR -M ", " --no-merge
Do not merge parameters. All parameters will be shown, regardless if they are
have the same name or not. Duplicate parameters will be printed in yellow.
.TP
.BR -p ", " --path
Print the parameter path instead of the parameter name.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --readable
Print only parameters that have read permission. Can be used with
.RB [ -w | --writable ]
to print parameters that are both readable and writable.
.TP
.BR -R ", " --recursive
Recursively list all parameters under the specified parameter search string. If
.I param_search
is unspecified, all the parameters will be shown.
.TP
.BR -t ", " --tunable
Print only tunable parameters. This avoids printing directories and all
parameters containing any of the following:
.br
.BR console | debug_ | fail_ | force | import | nis | panic_ | srpc_sepol | stats | target_obd
.TP
.BR -w ", " --writable
Print only parameters that have write permission. Can be used with
.RB [ -r | --readable ]
to print parameters that are both readable and writable.
.SH EXAMPLES
Use wildcards to obtain all matching parameters:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl list_param ost.*
ost.OSS
ost.num_refs
.EE
.RE
.PP
Show the file type with
.BR -F ,
this can be useful in combination with
.B grep
to find certain types of parameters:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl list_param -F ost.* debug
ost.OSS/
ost.num_refs
debug=
.EE
.RE
.PP
Since there are multiple location that hold paramters, use
.B -p
to get the full filepath for more efficient use by external mornitoring tools:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl list_param -p ost.*
/sys/fs/lustre/ost/OSS
/sys/fs/lustre/ost/num_refs
.EE
.RE
.PP
Search recursively through the directory tree with
.B -R
to get the full list of both directories and parameters in the tree:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl list_param -R mdt
mdt
mdt.lustre-MDT0000
mdt.lustre-MDT0000.capa
mdt.lustre-MDT0000.capa_count
mdt.lustre-MDT0000.capa_key_timeout
mdt.lustre-MDT0000.capa_timeout
mdt.lustre-MDT0000.commit_on_sharing
mdt.lustre-MDT0000.evict_client
.B ...
.EE
.RE
.PP
To avoid following symlinks which can lead to duplicate output use
.BR --no-links .
Note that
.I mgs.MGS.osd
is a symlink to
.I ../../ost-ldiskfs/lustre-MDT0000:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl list_param -L -R mgs.MGS
.B ...
mgs.MGS.mgs.timeouts
mgs.MGS.mntdev
mgs.MGS.num_exports
mgs.MGS.uuid
mgs.MGS.filesystems
mgs.MGS.gss
.B ...
.EE
.RE
Compare this to the same command with --links enabled:
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl list_param -l -R mgs.MGS
.B ...
mgs.MGS.mgs.timeouts
mgs.MGS.mntdev
mgs.MGS.num_exports
mgs.MGS.osd
mgs.MGS.osd.auto_scrub
.B ...
mgs.MGS.osd.quota_slave_md.root_prj_enable
mgs.MGS.osd.quota_slave_md.timeout
mgs.MGS.uuid
mgs.MGS.filesystems
mgs.MGS.gss
.B ...
.EE
.RE
.PP
To get a full list of tunable parameters on the filesystem combine -t with -wr
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl list_param -R -L -t -wr ost.OSS.ost_seq
ost.OSS.ost_seq.high_priority_ratio
ost.OSS.ost_seq.threads_max
ost.OSS.ost_seq.threads_min
ost.OSS.ost_seq.nrs_crrn_quantum
ost.OSS.ost_seq.nrs_delay_max
ost.OSS.ost_seq.nrs_delay_min
ost.OSS.ost_seq.nrs_delay_pct
ost.OSS.ost_seq.nrs_policies
ost.OSS.ost_seq.nrs_tbf_rule
ost.OSS.ost_seq.req_buffer_history_max
ost.OSS.ost_seq.req_buffers_max
.EE
.RE
.PP
Using --merge will collapse copies of the same parameter if they have the exact
same name. Multiple copies are often caused by symlinks pointing to the same
directory that has already been searched
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl list_param -R --no-merge osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000
.I osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000 <- symlink
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.active
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.active
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.blocksize
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.blocksize
.B ...
.P
.B # lctl list_param -R --merge osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.active
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.blocksize
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.create_count
.B ...
.EE
.RE
.PP
Using --dshbak will collapse multiple OSTs and MDTs so params are easier to read
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl list_param -R osp.*
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.active
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.blocksize
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.create_count
osp.lustre-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.destroys_in_flight
.B ...
osp.lustre-OST0001-osc-MDT0000.active
osp.lustre-OST0001-osc-MDT0000.blocksize
osp.lustre-OST0001-osc-MDT0000.create_count
osp.lustre-OST0001-osc-MDT0000.destroys_in_flight
.B ...
.P
.B # lctl list_param -R --dshbak osp.*
osp.lustre-OST*-osc-MDT*.active
osp.lustre-OST*-osc-MDT*.blocksize
osp.lustre-OST*-osc-MDT*.create_count
osp.lustre-OST*-osc-MDT*.destroys_in_flight
.B ...
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl list_param
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 1.7.0
.\" Added in commit 1.6.1-3050-g04248c9069
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lctl-get_param (8),
.BR lctl-set_param (8)
