.TH LCTL-SNAPSHOT_DESTROY 8 2024-08-14 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-snapshot_destroy \- destroy Lustre snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl snapshot_destroy"
.RB [ -f | --force ]
.RB { -F | --fsname
.IR FSNAME }
.RB [ -h | --help ]
.RB { -n | --name
.IR SSNAME }
.RB [ -r | --rsh
.IR REMOTE_SHELL ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Destroy the specified snapshot. The tool loads system configuration from
the file
.B /etc/ldev.conf
as described in the
.BR lctl (8)
.B SNAPSHOT
section. Then, the snapshot pieces are destroyed on every Lustre target
(MGT/MDT/OST).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -f ", " --force
Destroy the specified snapshot by force. If the snapshot is mounted (see
.BR snapshot_mount ),
it will be unmounted first and then destroyed. Even if some pieces of the
snapshot are lost or broken for some reason(s), the remaining parts of the
snapshot can still be destroyed with this option specified.
.TP
.BR -F ", " --fsname \ \fIFSNAME
The filesystem name.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
For help information.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --name \ \fISSNAME
The snapshot (to be destroyed) name must be specified.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --rsh \ \fIREMOTE_SHELL
Specify a shell to communicate with remote targets. The default value is
.BR ssh .
It is the system admin's duty to guarantee that the specified
.I REMOTE_SHELL
works well among targets without password authentication.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl-snapshot-destroy
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.10.0
.\" Added in commit v2_9_54_0-67-gd73849a05e
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-barrier (8),
.BR lctl-lcfg (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-create (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-list (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-modify (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-mount (8),
.BR lctl-snapshot-umount (8)
