.TH LCTL-SET_PARAM 8 2025-03-26 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-set_param \- Lustre filesystem set parameter utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl set_param"
.RB [ --client | -C\c
.RI [ FSNAME ]]
.RB [ --delete | -d ]
.RB [ --file | -F ]
.RB [ --no-name | -n ]
.RB [ --permanent | -P ]
.RB [ --thread | -t\c
.RI [ THREAD_COUNT ]]
.IR PARAMETER \= VALUE " ..."
.SY "lctl set_param -F"
.I FILENAME
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the value of the named Lustre or LNet
.I PARAMETER
to
.I VALUE
on the local node. Parameter names consist of one or more components,
separated by a '.' (period).
Each component may be specified by plain text or by a wildcard in the
.BR glob (7)
format. When wildcards are used, more than one parameter may match and
be changed. Parameters are often, but not always, of the form
.IR OBD_NAME.OBD_INSTANCE.PARAMETER_NAME ,
where
.I OBD_NAME
is one of the OBD object types, like
.BR ldlm ", " llite ", " lmv ", " lov ", " mdc ", " osc ,
etc., and
.I OBD_INSTANCE
is the name of a Lustre device, like
.BR testfs-OST0000 ,
but may be a specific component,
or contain wildcards to match some or all devices on the node.
Parameters can only be modified by the root user for security reasons.
.SH OPTIONS
The various options supported by
.B lctl list_param
are listed and explained below:
.TP
.BR -C ", " --client
Write parameters to the local
.B /etc/lustre/mount.client.params
config file. Upon all future Lustre client mounts
those parameters will be set on the local node. If
.I FSNAME
was specified, the parameters will be instead written to the mount-specific
.BI /etc/lustre/mount. FSNAME .params
config file. The filesystem specific params will be set only when that
filesystem is mounted and will override the more generic client mount
parameters.
.TP
.BR -d ", " --delete
Remove the permanent setting (only for parameters set with the
.B -P
option).
.TP
.BR -F ", " --file
Set parameters from
.I FILENAME
instead of from the command-line. The contents of
.I FILENAME
is YAML format, created by the output from running
.RB ' "lctl llog_print"
.I FSNAME\c
.BR -client ',
or from any other valid llog configuration log as listed by
.RB ' "lctl llog_catlist" '.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --no-name
Disable printing of the parameter name after setting it.
.TP
.BR -P ", " --permanent
Set
.I PARAMETER
permanently on
.B all
nodes connected to the MGS on which the command is run. To limit wildcard
.I PARAMETER
matching to specific filesystems or parameters, ensure that
.I PARAMETER
contains a suitably-specific expression for the
.I OBD_NAME
and
.IR OBD_INSTANCE ,
such as the filesystem and/or target name. This option is only available
in Lustre 2.5.0 and later clients, older clients cannot set persistent
parameters, nor will they see them.
.TP
.BR -t ", " --thread " ["\fITHREAD_COUNT\fR]
Spawn threads to set multiple parameters in parallel, optionally specifying
the maximum number of threads to run (with no space between
.B -t
and
.IR THREAD_COUNT ).
Without this option parameter(s) are set serially.
If
.B lctl
was compiled without pthread support, a warning message will be
printed and parameters will be set serially. If
.B -t
is specified without any argument, it runs up to 8 threads by default.
.SH EXAMPLES
Set two parameters temporarily on the local node:
.RS
.EX
.B client# lctl set_param jobid_name=%H:%e:%u debug_mb=1024
jobid_name=%H:%e:%u
debug_mb=1024
.EE
.RE
.PP
Set two parameters, but don't print parameter names with the values:
.RS
.EX
.B client# lctl set_param -n jobid_name=%H:%e:%u debug_mb=1024
%H:%e:%u
1024
.EE
.RE
.PP
Run two parallel threads to set parameters that may do a lot of work:
.RS
.EX
.B client# lctl set_param -t2 "ldlm.namespaces.*osc*.lru_size=clear"
ldlm.namespaces.fsname-OST0001-osc-MDT0000.lru_size=clear
ldlm.namespaces.fsname-OST0000-osc-MDT0000.lru_size=clear
.EE
.RE
.PP
Permanently set a parameter with a wildcard in the MGS config llog:
.RS
.EX
.B mgs# lctl set_param -P osc.testfs-OST*.max_dirty_mb=512
osc.testfs-OST0000-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_dirty_mb=512
osc.testfs-OST0001-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_dirty_mb=512
osc.testfs-OST0002-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_dirty_mb=512
osc.testfs-OST0003-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_dirty_mb=512
osc.testfs-OST0004-osc-ffff8803c9c0f000.max_dirty_mb=512
.EE
.RE
.PP
Permanently set
.B osc.testfs-*.max_dirty_mb=2000
when mounting 'testfs' and
.B osc.testfs-*.max_dirty_mb=1024
for other Lustre mountpoints on this client node:
.RS
.EX
.B client# lctl set_param -C=test_fs osc.testfs-*.max_dirty_mb=2000
.B client# lctl set_param -C osc.*.max_dirty_mb=1024
.RE
.EE
.PP
Backup the
.RB ' params '
configuration log, and then restore it (at some later time):
.RS
.EX
.B mgs# lctl llog_print params > /tmp/params.yaml
[ params log is erased, not shown here ]
.B mgs# lctl set_param -F /tmp/params.yaml
.RE
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl set_param
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 1.7.0
.\" Added in commit 1.6.0-903-g04af22fc24
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-get_param (8),
.BR lctl-list_param (8),
.BR lctl-llog_catlist (8),
.BR lctl-llog_print (8)
