.TH LCTL-POOL_NEW 8 2025-05-01 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-pool_new \- create a new named list of OSTs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl pool_new"
.RB [ --nowait | -n ]
.IR FSNAME . POOLNAME
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a list of OSTs with the name
.I POOLNAME
in the filesystem named
.IR FSNAME .
The
.B lctl pool_new
command must be run on the MGS node and can only be used by the
root user.
.P
The
.I POOLNAME
must be 15 or fewer alphanumeric characters ('A-Za-z0-9'), and may contain
hyphen ('-') and underscore ('_') characters. The period ('.') character can
only be used to separate the
.I FSNAME
from the
.I POOLNAME
in commands to uniquely identify the pool when multiple filesystems are mounted
on a node. The pool name must not be one of the reserved keywords
.RB ' none ',
.RB ' ignore ',
or
.RB ' inherit '.
.P
.SH NOTES
After updating the MGS configuration, this command will wait up to 12s and
check if pools are updated on a client, unless the
.B --nowait
option is used.
If the MGS is on a separate node from the MDS, a Lustre client must
be mounted on the MGS node while the
.B lctl
commands are being run for this. Otherwise, the client check is skipped.
.P
This named list of OSTs can be used by
.BR lfs-setstripe (1)
to specify the OSTs on which new files can be created, and
.BR lfs-find (1)
to locate files that were created on the specified pool. As well,
.BR lfs-df (1)
can show only the free space or inodes in a named pool.  The
.BR lfs-quota (1)
and
.BR lfs-setquota (1)
commands can use a pool name to get/set a quota limit for OSTs in the pool.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -n ", " --nowait
Do not wait and check if pool is updated on a client.
This is useful when calling a lot of
.RB ' "lctl pool_*" '
commands in a row, to avoid waiting for each command to complete.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a pool named
.B flash
in the
.B testfs
filesystem:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs pool_new testfs.flash
.EE
.RE
.PP
Add OSTs numbered 8, 10, and 12 through 14 to the
.B testfs.flash
pool:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs pool_add testfs.flash 8 10 12-14
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl pool_new
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 1.7.0
.\" Added in commit 1.6.0-1808-g665e36b780
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-pool_add (8),
.BR lfs-df (1),
.BR lfs-find (1),
.BR lfs-setquota (1),
.BR lfs-setstripe (1)
