.TH LCTL-POOL_REMOVE 8 2024-08-30 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-pool_remove \- remove OST from a named pool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl pool_remove"
.RB [ --nowait | -n ]
.IB FSNAME . POOLNAME
.I OSTNAME_INDEXED_LIST
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Remove one or more OSTs from the pool named
.I POOLNAME
in the filesystem named
.IR FSNAME .
There are several formats that the OSTs can be specified.
Simplest is to just specify a list of
.I OST_INDEX
numbers or OST names. In this form the numbers must be proceeded by
.B OST
so that it is of the format
.BI OST OST_INDEX .
Where
.I OST_INDEX
is in hexadecimal format.
It is also possible to specify an
.I OST_RANGE
expression of the form
.BI OST[ START - END ]
or
.BI OST[ START - END / STEP ]
that adds multiple OSTs with index numbers in the range from
.I START
to
.I END
(inclusive), optionally skipping every
.I STEP
index values.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -n ", " --nowait
Do not wait and check if pool is updated on a client.
This is useful when calling a lot of
.RB \(dq "lctl pool_" *\(dq
in a row. This avoids revoking the clients "CONFIG" lock for each
command (by default clients retake their lock and update their configurations
in a delay between 5-10s).
.SH EXAMPLES
Remove OSTs numbered 8, 9, and 10 from the
.B testfs.local
pool.
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl pool_remove testfs.local OST0008 OST0009 OST000a
OST lustre-OST0008_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
OST lustre-OST0009_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
OST lustre-OST000a_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
or
.B # lctl pool_remove testfs.local OST[8-a]
OST lustre-OST0008_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
OST lustre-OST0009_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
OST lustre-OST000a_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
.EE
.RE
.PP
List of OSTs can be set with comma seperated values or a combined format
.RS
.EX
.B # lctl pool_remove testfs.local OST[8,a]
OST lustre-OST0008_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
OST lustre-OST000a_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
or
.B # lctl pool_remove testfs.local OST[4-6,8,a]
OST lustre-OST0004_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
OST lustre-OST0005_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
OST lustre-OST0006_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
OST lustre-OST0008_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
OST lustre-OST000a_UUID removed from pool lustre.local
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl pool_remove
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 1.7.0
.\" Added in commit 1.6.1-1578-g665e36b780
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs-df (1),
.BR lfs-find (1),
.BR lfs-setstripe (1),
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lctl-pool_add (8),
.BR lctl-pool_destroy (8),
.BR lctl-pool_list (8),
.BR lctl-pool_new (8)
