.TH LCTL-CHANGELOG_REGISTER 8 "2021-06-18" Lustre "configuration utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-changelog_register \- register a new changelog user for particular device.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lctl changelog_register
.RB [ --help | -h ]
.RB [ --mask | -m
.IR MASK ]
.RB [ --nameonly | -n ]
.RB [ --user | -u
.IR USERNAME ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command is used to register a new changelog user on selected device. New
user may set specific \fImask\fR and/or specific unique \fIusername\fR.
Changelog entries will not be purged beyond any registered users' set point.
See also \fBlfs changelog_clear\fR.
.br
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --help | -h
Output brief command usage help.
.TP
.BR --mask | -m\ \fI MASK
Sets per-user changelog \fImask\fR. Mask is specified as set of keywords
in form [+|-]\fImask1\fR[<,|+|->\fImask2\fR...]. Masks are separated by comma
or '+' to indicate a mask to be added and by '-' to indicate mask to be
removed. If mask list is started with '+' or '-' then masks are relative
to the default changelog mask, otherwise mask is absolute. Possible mask
keywords are:
.BR mark ", " creat ", " mkdir ", " hlink ", " slink ", " mknod ", "
.BR unlnk ", " rmdir ", " renme ", " rnmto ", " open ", " close ", "
.BR lyout ", " trunc ", " sattr ", " xattr ", " hsm ", " mtime ", "
.BR ctime ", " atime ", " migrt ", " flrw ", " resync ", " gxatr ", " nopen .
The default changelog mask consists of all masks excluding:
``atime, open, gxatr, nopen''. Both uppercase and lowercase are accepted for
keywords.
.TP
.BR --nameonly | -n
The output format modifier. If set then command outputs just changelog user
name in format 'cl<\fIID\fR>[-<\fIusername\fR>]. Where \fIID\fR stands for
assigned changelog user \fBID\fR.
.TP
.BR --user | -u \ \fI USERNAME
Specific username assigment. Unique name can be assigned to a new changelog
user. Name must start with a letter and consist of letters, digits, '-' and
\'_' symbols with total length limited by 15 symbols.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Simple changelog user register on device \fBtestfs-MDT0000\fR:
.br
# lctl --device testfs-MDT0000 changelog_register
.br
testfs-MDT0000: Registered changelog userid 'cl1'
.TP
Register changelog user with specific name \fBtestname\fR:
.br
# lctl --device testfs-MDT0000 changelog_register -u testname
.br
lustre-MDT0000: Registered changelog userid 'cl1-testname'
.TP
Register changelog user with specific mask:
.br
# lctl --device testfs-MDT0000 changelog_register -m +open,atime,-hlink
.br
lustre-MDT0000: Registered changelog userid 'cl1'
.TP
Register changelog user with terse output:
.br
# lctl --device testfs-MDT0000 changelog_register -n
.br
cl1

.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl changelog_register
is a subcommand of
.BR lctl (8)
and is distributed as part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-changelog_deregister (8)

