.TH LCTL-NODEMAP_INFO 8 2025-03-10 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lctl-nodemap_info \- present information about nodemaps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl nodemap_info"
or
.SY "lctl nodemap info"
.BI --name " NODEMAP_NAME"
.BI --property " PROPERTY_NAME"
.B --list
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nodemap_info
presents information about the defined nodemaps. This includes whether nodemaps
are active, a list of the defined nodemaps, and the values of specific nodemap
parameters. If no options are specified, all nodemaps and their properties
are presented.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --name " NODEMAP_NAME"
Specifies the name of the nodemap to present information about. If not
specified, all nodemaps are presented. This option can be used in conjunction
with the
.B --property
option to present the value of a specific property for a specific nodemap.
.TP
.BI --property " PROPERTY_NAME"
Specifies the name of the property to present the value of. If not specified,
all properties are presented. This option can be used in conjunction with the
.B --name
option to present the value of a specific property for a specific nodemap.
.TP
.B --list
Presents the global nodemap state and Lists all defined nodemaps and available
nodemap properties.
.SH EXAMPLES
List general nodemap information:
.EX
.B # lctl nodemap_info --list
.EE
.PP
List the values of all properties for all nodemaps:
.EX
.B # lctl nodemap_info
.EE
.PP
List the values for all properties for the "remote" nodemap:
.EX
.B # lctl nodemap_info --name remote
.EE
.PP
List the value of the specific "ranges" property for the "remote" nodemap:
.EX
.B # lctl nodemap_info --name remote --property ranges
.EE
.PP
List the value of the specific "ranges" property for all nodemaps:
.EX
.B # lctl nodemap_info --property ranges
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lctl nodemap_info
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.16.52
.\" Added in commit v2.16.52_105_g03b41c3
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lctl-nodemap-activate (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-add (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-add-idmap (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-add-range (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-del (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-del-idmap (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-del-range (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-modify (8),
.BR lctl-nodemap-set-fileset (8)
