.TH LFS-MIRROR-RESYNC 1 2017-07-25 "Lustre" "Lustre Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs mirror resync \- resynchronize an out-of-sync mirrored file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lfs mirror resync
[\fB\-\-only\fR <\fImirror_id\fR[,...]>]
<\fImirrored_file\fR> [<\fImirrored_file2\fR>...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command resynchronizes out-of-sync mirrored file(s) specified by the path
name \fImirrored_file\fR.
.br
If there is no stale mirror for the \fImirrored_file(s)\fR, then the command does
nothing. Otherwise, it will copy data from synced mirror to stale mirror(s), and
mark all successfully copied mirror(s) as SYNC.
.br
If \fB\-\-only\fR option is not specified, the \fBnosync\fR mirror(s) (i.e.
components that have this flag set) will not be synced.
.br
If \fB\-\-only\fR <\fImirror_id\fR[,...]> option is specified, then the
command will resynchronize the mirror(s) specified by the \fImirror_id\fR(s),
even nosync mirror(s) will be resynchronized as well.
This option cannot be used when multiple mirrored files are specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-only\fR\ <\fImirror_id\fR[,...]>
This option indicates which mirror(s) specified by \fImirror_id\fR(s) needs to
be resynchronized. The \fImirror_id\fR is the numerical unique identifier for
a mirror. Multiple \fImirror_id\fRs are separated by comma. This option cannot
be used when multiple mirrored files are specified.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B lfs mirror resync /mnt/lustre/file1 /mnt/lustre/file2
Resynchronize all of the stale and sync-able mirror(s) for /mnt/lustre/file1 and /mnt/lustre/file2.
.TP
.B lfs mirror resync --only 4,5 /mnt/lustre/file1
Resynchronize mirrors with mirror ID 4 and 5 for /mnt/lustre/file1 even if they
are not marked as STALE.
.SH AUTHOR
The \fBlfs mirror resync\fR command is part of the Lustre filesystem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lfs-setstripe (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-create (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-extend (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-split (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-verify (1)
