.TH LFS-MIRROR-COPY 1 2018-09-23 "Lustre" "Lustre Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs mirror copy \- copy a mirror's content to other mirror(s) of a mirrored file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lfs mirror copy
{\fB\-\-read-mirror|\-i\fR <\fIid0\fR>}
{\fB\-\-write-mirror|\-o\fR <\fIid1>[,<id2>,...]\fR}
<\fImirrored_file\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command copies a mirror's content to other mirror(s) of a mirrored file,
the file is specified by the path name \fImirrored_file\fR, the mirrors are
specified by their mirror ID.
.SH NOTE
Be ware that the written mirror(s) will be marked as non-stale mirror(s),
be careful that after using this command, you could get a file with non-stale
mirrors while containing different contents.
.br
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-read-mirror|\-i\fR\ <\fIid0\fR>
This option indicates the content of which mirror specified by \fIid0\fR
needs to be read. The \fIid0\fR is the numerical unique identifier for
a mirror.
.TP
.BR \-\-write-mirror|\-o\fR\ <\fIid1\fR>[,<\fIid2\fR>,...]
This option indicates the content of which mirror(s) specified by mirror IDs
needs to be written. The mirror IDs are separated with comma.
If the mirror id \fB-1\fR is used here, it means that all mirrors other than
the read mirror are to be written.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B lfs mirror copy -i1 -o2,3 /mnt/lustre/file1
Copy the content of mirror with mirror ID 1 to the mirrors with mirror ID 2 and
mirror ID 3 in /mnt/lustre/file1.
.TP
.B lfs mirror copy -i1 -o-1 /mnt/lustre/file1
Copy the content of mirror with mirror ID 1 to all other mirrors in /mnt/lustre/file1.
.TP
.SH AUTHOR
The \fBlfs mirror copy\fR command is part of the Lustre filesystem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lfs-setstripe (1),
.BR lfs-getstripe (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-create (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-extend (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-split (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-verify (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-read (1)
.BR lfs-mirror-write (1)
