.TH LFS-PCC-ATTACH 1 2021-10-07 "Lustre" "Lustre Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs pcc attach \- attach file to local cache filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "lfs pcc attach " [ -rw "] [" --id | -i "\fIID\fR] " \fIFILE [...]
.br
.BR "lfs pcc attach_fid " [ -rw "] [" --id | -i "\fIID\fR] {" --mnt | -m "\fIMNTPATH\fR}" \fIFID [...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Attach and copy the specified files into the persistent client cache. Use
.B lfs pcc detach
to remove the cached files from PCC either manually, or through automatic
mechanisms for the purpose of the cache space management.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --id | -i
The ARCHIVE
.I ID
to choose which backend for the cached
.IR FILE .
If
.I ID
is not specified, then use the first archive attached to the mounted
filesystem by default.
.TP
.BR --mnt | -m
Specify the Lustre client mountpoint for the file
.IR FID
to be attached.
.TP
.BR --readonly | -r
Attach the file in read-only mode.  This is the default.
.TP
.BR --write | -w
Attach the file in read-write mode.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B $ lfs pcc attach -i 1 /mnt/lustre/file
Attach an existing file into PCC with archive ID 1 and copy data from Lustre
to cache device. Reads from the Lustre file will direct to the PCC-RO copy.
.TP
.B $ lfs pcc attach_fid -r -m /mnt/lustre 0x200000401:0x1:0x0
Read-only attach file referenced by FID "0x200000401:0x1:0x0" in filesystem
.B /mnt/lustre
using the first/only cache ID for that mountpoint.
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lfs-pcc (1),
.BR lfs-pcc-detach (1),
.BR lfs-pcc-state (1),
.BR lctl-pcc (8),
.BR llapi_pcc_attach (3)
