.TH LFS-GETDIRSTRIPE 1 2017-11-07 "Lustre" "Lustre Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs getdirstripe \- list the layout pattern of a given directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "lfs getdirstripe" " [" -cDimOrTXy "]... " \fIDIR\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Get the layout pattern of striped directories. This
.BR lfs (1)
command is similar to
.BR "lfs getstripe" ,
but is used for the directory layout.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-T ", " \-\-mdt-count
Only show the number of MDTs the directory is striped across.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-default
Show the default layout used when creating new subdirectories.
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-mdt-hash
Only show the hash function being used for this directory.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-m ", " \-\-mdt-index
Only show the master MDT index of the directory.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-obd\fR=\fIFSNAME-MDTnnnn_UUID\fR
Limit the returned directories to those with objects on a specific MDT,
whose UUID is
.I FSNAME-MDTnnnn_UUID.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-recursive
The default behavior when a directory is specified is to list the striping
information for all sub-directories within the specified directory. This
can be expanded with
.BR --recursive ,
which will recurse into all subdirectories.
.TP
.BR \-X ",  " \-\-max-inherit
Show the inherit depth of default layout.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yaml
Show the layout in YAML format for easier parsing.
.TP
.BR \-\-max-inherit-rr
Show the inherit depth of default layout to roundrobin mkdir.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B $ lfs getdirstripe -O lustre-MDT0001_UUID -r /mnt/lustre/dir1
List the striping information of sub-directories, that are located on MDT1,
under
.BR /mnt/lustre/dir1 .
.SH AVAILABILTY
The lfs getdirstripe command is part of the Lustre filesystem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lfs-setdirstripe (1),
.BR lfs-getstripe (1),
.BR lustre (7)
