.TH lfs-heat 1 "Feb. 09, 2019" Lustre "Lustre utility"
.SH NAME
.B lfs heat_command
lfs commands used to interact with file heat features
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lfs heat_get|heat_set
.IR \fR<\fIFILE \fR...>
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
These are a set of lfs commands used to interact with Lustre file heat feature.
Currently file heat is only stored in memory with file inode, it might be reset
to be zero at any time with the release of the inode due to memory reclaim.
.TP
.B lfs heat_get  \fR<\fIFILE \fR...>
Get file heat on file list.
.TP
.B lfs heat_set [\fB--clear\fR|\fB-c\fR] [\fB--off\fR|\fB-o\fR] [\fB--on\fR|\fB-O\fR] \fR<\fIFILE \fR...>
Set provided file heat flags on file list.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --clear | -c
Clear file heat on given files.
.TP
.BR --off | -o
Turn off file heat on given files.
.TP
.BR --on | -O
Turn on file heat on given files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Turn on file heat support for the Lustre filesystem:
.B $ lctl set_param llite.$FSNAME*.file_heat=1
.TP
Trun off file heat support for the Lustre filesystem:
.B $ lctl set_param llite.$FSNAME*.file_heat=0
.TP
Display current file heat for foo:
.B $ lfs heat_get /mnt/lustre/foo
.br
flags: 0
.br
readsample: 0
.br
writesample: 16
.br
readbyte: 0
.br
writebyte: 16777216
.br

.TP
Clear the file heat for foo:
.B $ lfs heat_set -c /mnt/lustre/foo
.TP
Turn off file heat for foo:
.B $ lfs heat_set -o /mnt/lustre/foo
.TP
Turn on file heat for foo:
.B $ lfs heat_set -O /mnt/lustre/foo
.SH AUTHOR
The
.B lfs heat
command is part of the
.BR Lustre (7)
filesystem.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1)
.BR lustre (7)
