.TH LFS-SETDIRSTRIPE 1 2017-11-07 "Lustre" "Lustre Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs setdirstripe, mkdir \- set striping pattern of a directory.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lfs setdirstripe [\fR-cdDhHioTxX\fR] \fIDIR\fR...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a striped directory with specified striping pattern. This
.B lfs
sub-command is similar to
.BR "lfs setstripe" ,
but is used to create a striped directory or set the default layout for
subdirectories.
Can also be used to create directory with a foreign (free format) striping pattern (see
.BR --foreign
and
.BR --xattr
options).
.B lfs mkdir
is an alias for this command.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-T ", " \-\-mdt\-count =\fICOUNT\fR
Stripe the new directory over
.I COUNT
MDTs.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage message.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-mdt\-index =\fISTART_MDT_INDEX\fR[,\fIMDT_INDEX ...]
Use the MDT whose index is
.I START_MDT_INDEX
as the master/starting MDT for the directory. If multiple
.I MDT_INDEX
values are given, then the stripes will be allocated on the specified
MDT indices.  If
.B -1
(default) is used, the client will round-robin subdirectory creation
across all MDTs if their free space is within
.B lod.*.mdt_qos_threshold_rr
percent of each other, otherwise the client will prefer to select
.B COUNT
MDT(s) proportional to the free space and inodes on each.
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-mdt-hash =\fIHASH_TYPE\fR
Use
.I hash_type
for the striped directory.
.RS 1.2i
.TP
.B crush
CRUSH hash algorithm.  This is a consistent hash
algorithm, so minimum sub files need to relocate
during directory restripe.
.TP
.B fnv_1a_64
Fowler-Noll-Vo (FNV-1a) hash algorithm.  This provides
reasonably uniform, but not cryptographically strong,
hashing of the filename. (default)
.TP
.B all_char
Sum of ASCII characters modulo number of MDTs. This
provides weak hashing of the filename, and is suitable
for only testing or when the input is known to have
perfectly uniform distribution (e.g. sequential numbers).
.RE
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delete
Delete the default striping layout from the directory.  New subdirectories
created in this directory will inherit the global default directory layout
(by default they will not be striped).
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-default
Set the default striping pattern of subdirectories. Newly created
sub-directories will use the new default striping pattern,
but existing sub-directories will not be affected.  The newly
created sub-directories will also inherit the specified default
striping pattern.

Note that striping all directories across all MDTs by default is
.B not
recommended at this time, as the clients will have to do more RPCs to
create and access each directory, hurting performance rather than
improving it.  Default striped directories are preferred only for
parent directories where large subdirectories will be created
(e.g. file-per-process job output directories).  Instead, using
.B -c 1 -i -1
on top-level directories balances mkdir therein over MDTs automatically
without causing all subdirectories to be remote by default.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-mode =\fIMODE\fR
Set the file access permissions of the new directory to the specified
numeric
.I MODE
(typically octal), as with
.BR chmod (1).
It is not affected by the current
.BR umask (1p).
.TP
.BR \-\-foreign[=type]
Create a directory with a foreign (non-Lustre/free format, see
.BR \-\-xattr
option) striping. Where
.BR type
specifies a known foreign type (like
.BR none
,
.BR symlink
, ...) or a 32-bit numeric type.
.TP
.BR \-\-flags =\fI<hex>\fR
Specify a numeric bitmask of type-specific layout flags for the foreign layout.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-xattr =\fISTRING\fR
Specify a string to be used as a foreign (free format) striping.
.TP
.BR \-X ", " \-\-max-inherit = \fIMAX_INHERIT
Set the inherit depth of default directory layout. If non-zero, then
.I MAX_INHERIT
is the number of subdirectory levels for which this default layout is inherited,
up to a maximum of 250 levels, and is decremented by one when copying the
default layout to each new subdirectory, until zero and the default layout is
no longer copied. A
.I MAX_INHERIT
of -1 means the default layout is inherited for all subdirectories.
.TP
.BR \-\-max-inherit-rr = \fIMAX_INHERIT_RR
Set the round-robin inherit depth of the default directory layout, only when
.I START_MDT_INDEX
is -1.  If
.I MAX_INHERIT_RR
is zero (unset), then new subdirectories are preferentially created on MDTs
with more free space and inodes if the MDTs are imbalanced.  If non-zero, then
.I MAX_INHERIT_RR
is the number of subdirectory levels, up to a maximum of 250 levels, for which
new subdirectories will be created in a round-robin manner across all available
MDTs, rather than using MDT space balancing for new subdirectories.  Otherwise,
.I MAX_INHERIT_RR
is decremented by one when copying the default layout to each new subdirectory,
until zero and round-robin is no longer used.  It may be useful to set
.I MAX_INHERIT_RR
to 2 or 3 when setting the default directory layout on the root of a
.B new
filesystem, so that top-level subdirectories are immediately spread
across MDTs, rather than waiting for the MDTs to become imbalanced.
Round-robin subdirectory creation is unlikely to be useful for existing
filesystems that already have many files and imbalanced MDTs, since space
balancing will already happen, and this will unnecessarily increase the number
of remote subdirectories (increasing overhead) without any benefit.
.SH NOTE
.PP
If neither
.B -c
or
.B -i
are specified,
.B lfs mkdir
will default to
.B -c 1 -i -1
and create the directory on an MDT that is less full than the others.
.PP
The
.B lfs setdirstripe
command is only usable by root unless the
.B "mdt.*.enable_remote_dir_gid"
is set on the MDS via
.B lctl set_param
to be either a non-zero numeric GID to limit it to a single group (e.g. the
.BR "operator " or " admin"
GID), or
.B "-1"
to allow any user/group to create remote directories.  By default, it is
.B "0"
to limit remote/striped directories to only the root user.

The root directory of the file system is on MDT0000, and a filesystem-wide
default directory layout is set on it by default:
.B lfs setdirstripe -D -i -1 -c 1 --max-inherit -1 --max-inherit-rr 3
, which is a space balanced directory layout, therefore new directories will be
created on all MDTs by inode and space usage, and the top three level of new
directories will be created in roundrobin mode if system is balanced.  If user
doesn't want automatic space balance, deleting this default directory layout
won't work, because it will be recreated if not set, instead user can run
.B lfs setdirstripe -D -i -1 -c 1 --max-inherit 1 <mountpoint>
to limit space balance in the top level, or run
.B lfs setdirstripe -D -i 0 -c 1 --max-inherit 1 <mountpoint>
to disable it.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B $ lfs setdirstripe -c 2 -i 1 -H all_char /mnt/lustre/dir1
This creates a directory striped on two MDTs, whose first stripe is on
.B MDT0001
(MDT index 1), and whose hash type is
.BR all_char .
.TP
.B $ lfs mkdir --foreign=symlink --xattr PUUID/CUUID /mnt/lustre/dir1
This creates
.B dir1
with foreign (non-lustre/free format)
.B PUUID/CUUID
striping/LMV EA value (symlink type).
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.B lfs setdirstripe
command is part of the Lustre filesystem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lfs-getdirstripe (1),
.BR lfs-setstripe (1),
.BR lustre (7)
