.so lustre/doc/lgroff-macros
.TH LFS-DF 1 2024-08-15 Lustre "Lustre User Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs-df \- report Lustre filesystem disk usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lfs df"
.RB [ -i ]
.RB [ -h | -H ]
.RB [ --lazy | -l ]
.RB [ --pool | -p
.IR FSNAME [. POOL ]]
.RB [ --mdt | -m ]
.RB [ --ost | -o ]
.RB [ --verbose | -v ]
.RI [ path ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lfs df
displays filesystem usage information by default for each Lustre
filesystem currently mounted on that node, or for the filesystem
that contains
.I PATH
if given. It displays the current usage and totals for each MDT and
OST separately, as well as a per-filesystem summary that matches
.BR df (1)
output for each filesystem.
.PP
By default
.B lfs df
reports the
.I SPACE
usage of the OSTs (the MDT space usage is shown only for reference).  With
.B -i
it reports the
.I INODE
(object) usage for each target and in the summary.  For ZFS-backed
targets, the
.B IUsed
count accurately reflects the number of in-use objects on each target,
but the
.B Inodes
total and
.B Free
inode counts are
.I ESTIMATED
based on the current average (mean) space used per object on each target,
and may fluctuate over time to reflect the current usage pattern of
the target.  The estimate becomes more accurate as the target becomes
more full, assuming the usage pattern is consistent.
.PP
.B lfs df
may also report additional target status as the last column in the
display, if there are issues with that target.  States include:
.RS 0.3i
.TP
.B D: degraded
The target has a failed drive in the RAID device, or is undergoing
RAID reconstruction.  This state is marked on the server automatically
for ZFS targets via
.BR zed (8),
or a (user-supplied) script that monitors the target device and sets
.BI "'lctl set_param obdfilter." TARGET ".degraded=1'"
on the OST.  This target will be avoided for new allocations, but
will still be used for existing files located there or if there are
not enough non-degraded OSTs to make up a widely-striped file.
.TP
.B N: no-precreate
The target is configured to deny object precreation by the
.BI "'lctl set_param obdfilter." TARGET ".no_precreate=1'"
parameter or
.B '-o no_precreate'
mount option.  This may be done to add an OST to the filesystem without
allowing objects to be allocated on it yet, or for other reasons.
.TP
.B R: read-only
The target filesystem is marked read-only due to filesystem
corruption detected by ldiskfs or ZFS.  No modifications are
allowed on this OST, and it needs to have
.BR e2fsck (8)
or
.BR zpool (8) " scrub"
run to repair the underlying filesystem.
.TP
.B S: out-of-space
The target filesystem has less than the minimum required free space and
will not be used for new object allocations until it has more free space.
.TP
.B I: out-of-inodes
The target filesystem has less than the minimum required free inodes and
will not be used for new object allocations until it has more free inodes.
.TP
.B f: flash
The target filesystem is using a flash (non-rotational) storage device.
This lower-case status is only shown in conjunction with the
.B -v
option, since it is not an error condition.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
The various options supported by
.B lfs df
are listed and explained below:
.TP
.BR -h ", " --human-readable
Print output in a human readable format (e.g. 16.3T, 4.25P).
Suffixes are base-2 units (i.e. 1 GiB = 1024 MiB).
.TP
.BR -H ", " --si
Like
.BR -h ,
but suffixes are SI base-10 units (i.e. 1 GB = 1000 MB).
.TP
.BR -i ", " --inodes
Print information about the inode usage and totals for the MDTs and
OSTs rather than space usage.  Note that the
.B Inodes
total,
.BR IUsed ,
and
.B IFree
counts typically reflect the
.I SUM
of values from the MDTs.  If the total number of objects available
on the OSTs is smaller (factoring in the filesystem default
.BR stripe_count ,
as one OST object is used for each stripe in a file)
then the reported
.B Inodes
and
.B IFree
values will be reduced to reflect the
.I MINIMUM
number of files that could potentially be created with the default
stripe count.  The actual total number of files that can be created
may be different.
.TP
.BR -l ", " --lazy
Do not attempt to contact any OST or MDT not currently connected to
the client.  This avoids blocking the
.B lfs df
output if a target is offline or unreachable, and only returns the
space on OSTs that can currently be accessed.
.TP
.BR -m ", " --mdt
Filter output to show information on
.B MDT
devices. Can be used with
.BR -o
to show both types of devices, which is equivalent to having neither option.
.TP
.BR -o ", " --ost
Filter output to show information on
.B OSTc
devices. Can be used with
.BR -m
to show both types of devices, which is equivalent to having neither option.
.TP
.BR -p ", " --pool= [ \fIfsname\fR .] \fIpool\fR
Limit the usage to report only MDTs and OSTs that are in the specified
.IR POOL .
If multiple filesystems are mounted, list OSTs in
.I POOL
for every filesystem, or limit the display to only a pool for a
specific filesystem if
.I FSNAME.POOL
is given.  Specifying both the fsname and pool like:
.br
.BI "lfs df --pool=" FSNAME.POOL
.br
is equivalent to specifying the mountpoint for the given
.IR FSNAME :
.br
.BI "lfs df --pool=" "pool /mnt/FSNAME"
.TP
.BR -v ", " --verbose
Show deactivated MDTs and OSTs in the listing, along with any
additional status flags for each MDT and OST.  By default, any
MDTs and OSTs that are deactivated by the administrator are not shown.
However, targets that are only temporarily inaccessible are still shown.
.SH EXAMPLES
Lists space usage per OST and MDT for the
.B testfs
filesystem in human readable format:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df -hv /mnt/testfs
UUID                 bytes  Used   Avail Use% Mounted on
testfs-MDT0000_UUID  13.0G  1.2G   11.0G  10% /testfs[MDT:0]
testfs-OST0000_UUID   3.6T  2.9T  585.7G  84% /testfs[OST:0]
testfs-OST0001_UUID   3.6T  3.1T  472.5G  87% /testfs[OST:1] D
testfs-OST0002_UUID   3.6T  3.0T  570.3G  84% /testfs[OST:2] DR
OST0003           : inactive device
testfs-OST0006_UUID   5.4T  4.9T  417.8G  92% /testfs[OST:3]
.P
filesystem_summary:  16.2T 13.8T    2.0T  88% /testfs
.EE
.RE
.PP
The above example output shows that
.B OST0003
is currently temporarily inactive or offline, while
.B OST0004
and
.B OST0005
are not shown at all, either because they are marked permanently offline
by the administrator (via
.BR "lctl set_param -P osc.testfs-OST000[45].active=0" )
or they were never added to the filesystem.  The
.B testfs-OST0001
and
.B testfs-OST0002
targets are currently marked
.BR D egraded
(perhaps they both share the same underlying storage controller),
while
.B testfs-OST0002
is also marked
.BR R ead-only,
after detecting non-recoverable corruption in the backing filesystem.
.PP
List inode usage per OST and MDT for all mounted Lustre filesystems:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df -iH
UUID                Inodes  IUsed  IFree IUse% Mounted on
testfs-MDT0000_UUID 932.2k 884.6k  47.6k  95% /testfs[MDT:0]
testfs-OST0000_UUID 267.5k 179.6k  87.8k  67% /testfs[OST:0]
testfs-OST0001_UUID 268.9k 173.5k  95.4k  64% /testfs[OST:1] D
testfs-OST0002_UUID 267.5k 169.6k  97.9k  63% /testfs[OST:2] DR
OST0003           : inactive device
testfs-OST0006_UUID 426.1k 377.4k  48.7k  88% /testfs[OST:3]
.P
filesystem_summary: 932.1k 884.6k  47.6k  95% /testfs
.EE
.RE
.PP
List space usage for only the
.B ssd
pool of the
.B testfs
filesystem:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df --pool ssd /mnt/testfs
.EE
.RE
.PP
List all MDTs and OSTs for the
.B testfs
filesystem, even if not currently connected:
.RS
.EX
.B # lfs df -v /mnt/testfs
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lfs df
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 1.4.0
.\" Added in commit 1.3.4-1130-g113303973e
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lustre (7)
