.TH LFS-MIRROR-SPLIT 1 2017-07-25 "Lustre" "Lustre Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs mirror split \- split a specified mirror from an existing mirrored file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lfs mirror split
{\fB\-\-mirror\-id\fR <\fImirror_id\fR> | \fB\-\-component\-id\fR|\
\fB\-\-comp\-id\fR|\fB\-I\fR
<\fIcomp_id\fR> | \fB\-\-pool\fR <\fIpool\fR>}
[\fB\-\-destroy\fR|\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR <\fInew_file\fR>]
<\fImirrored_file\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command splits a mirror with mirror ID <\fImirror_id\fR> or containing
a component with <\fIcomp_id\fR> or containing a component on <\fIpool\fR>
out of a mirrored file specified by the path name \fImirrored_file\fR.
By default, the layout of the split mirror will be stored into a new file named
<\fImirrored_file\fR>.mirror~<\fImirror_id\fR>. If \fB\-\-destroy\fR|\fB\-d\fR
option is specified, and the split mirror is not the last non-stale mirror,
then it will be destroyed.
If \fB\-f\fR <\fInew_file\fR> option is specified, then the layout of the split
mirror will be stored into the named file.
.br
If \fImirrored_file\fR has only one mirror existing after split, it will be
converted to a regular non-mirrored file.
.br
If the original \fImirrored_file\fR is not a mirrored file, then the command
will return an error.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-mirror\-id\fR\ <\fImirror_id\fR>
The numerical unique identifier for a mirror. The mirror ID is unique within a
mirrored file and is automatically assigned at file creation or extension time.
It can be fetched by \fBlfs getstripe\fR command (see \fBlfs(1)\fR).
.TP
.BR \-\-comp\-id\fR\ <\fIcomp_id\fR>
The numerical unique identifier for a component contained within a mirror.
.TP
.BR \-\-pool\fR\ <\fIpool\fR>
The pool storing a component contained within a mirror.
.TP
.BR \-\-destroy\fR|\fB\-d\fR
This option indicates the split mirror will be destroyed.
.br
This option is mandatory on encrypted files when the encryption key is not
available. Otherwise operation results in
.B
-ENOKEY.
.TP
.BR \-f\fR\ <\fInew_file\fR>
This option indicates the layout of the split mirror will be stored into
<\fInew_file\fR>.
.br
This option cannot be used on encrypted files when the encryption key is not
available. It will result in
.B
-ENOKEY.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B lfs mirror split --mirror-id 1 /mnt/lustre/file1
Split a mirror with ID 1 out of /mnt/lustre/file1 and store it into
/mnt/lustre/file1.mirror~1.
.TP
.B lfs mirror split --mirror-id 2 -d /mnt/lustre/file1
Split a mirror with ID 2 out of /mnt/lustre/file1 and destroy it.
.TP
.B lfs mirror split --mirror-id 3 -f /mnt/lustre/file2 /mnt/lustre/file1
Split a mirror with ID 3 out of /mnt/lustre/file1 and store it into
/mnt/lustre/file2.
.TP
.B lfs mirror split --comp-id 65537 -d /mnt/lustre/file1
Split a mirror containing the component with ID 65537 out of /mnt/lustre/file1
and destroy it.
.TP
.B lfs mirror split --pool lustre-nvme -d /mnt/lustre/file1
Split a mirror on pool lustre-nvme out of /mnt/lustre/file1 and destroy it.
.SH AUTHOR
The \fBlfs mirror split\fR command is part of the Lustre filesystem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lfs-setstripe (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-create (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-delete (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-extend (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-resync (1),
.BR lfs-mirror-verify (1)
