.TH lfs_migrate 1 "Dec 19, 2017" Lustre "utilities"
.SH NAME
.B lfs_migrate
\- migrate files between Lustre OSTs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lfs_migrate
.RB [ --dry-run ]
.RB [ --help|-h ]
.RB [ --no-rsync | --rsync ]
.RB [ --pool | -p \fI<pool> \fR]
.RB [ --quiet|-q ]
.RB [ --restripe|-R ]
.RB [ --skip|-s ]
.RB [ --verbose|-v ]
.RB [ --yes|-y ]
.RB [ -D ]
.RB [ -A [ -C \fI<cap> \fR] [ -M \fI<min_free> \fR] [ -X \fI<max_free> \fR]]
.RB [ --stripe-count|-c \fI<stripe_count> \fR]
.RB [ --stripe-size|-S \fI<stripe_size> \fR]
.RB [ -0 ]
.RI [ FILE | DIR ] ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lfs_migrate
is a tool to assist migration of files between Lustre OSTs, possibly also
restriping the files as it goes. It copies each specified file to a new file,
verifies the file contents have not changed, and then replaces the original
filename with the new file (either atomically via
.BR lfs-migrate (1)
on Lustre 2.5 and later, or
.BR mv (1)
on older versions of Lustre). This allows balancing space usage between OSTs,
moving files off OSTs that are starting to show hardware problems but are still
functional, or OSTs that will be removed from the filesystem.
.PP
Files to be migrated can be specified as command-line arguments.  If a
directory is specified on the command-line then all files within that
directory are migrated.  If no files are specified on the command-line,
then a list of files is read from the standard input, making
.B lfs_migrate
suitable for use with
.BR lfs-find (1)
to locate files on specific OSTs and/or matching other file attributes,
or any other tools that generate a list of files.
.PP
Any options and arguments not explicitly recognized by
.B lfs_migrate
are passed through to the underlying
.B lfs migrate
command, see
.BR lfs-migrate (1)
and
.BR lfs-setstripe (1)
for a complete list of options.
.PP
To maintain backward compatibility, the \fI-n \fRoption is used by the
script to indicate a dry-run (no modifications made), and is not passed to
.B lfs migrate
as the non-block option.  To specify non-block, use the long option
.BR --non-block .
.PP
The current file allocation policies on MDS dictate where the new files
are placed, taking into account whether specific OSTs have been disabled
on the MDS via
.BR lctl (8)
(preventing new files from being allocated there), whether
some OSTs are overly full (reducing the number of files placed on those
OSTs), or if there is a specific default file striping for the target
directory (potentially changing the stripe count, stripe size, OST pool,
or OST index of a new file).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \\--dry-run|-n
Only print the names of files to be migrated.
.TP
.B \\-D
Do not use direct I/O to copy file contents.
.TP
.B \\-A
Automatically determine the stripe count for the file, using the algorithm
count = sqrt(filesize_in_GB) + 1.  This option may not be specified at the
same time as the \fB-c \fRor \\-R \fRoptions.
.TP
.B \\--stripe-count|-c \fI<stripe_count>
Restripe file using the specified \fIstripe_count\fR. This option may not be
specified at the same time as the \fB-A \fRor \fB-R \fRoptions.
.TP
.B \\-C \fI<cap>
When \fB-A \fRis set, limit the migrated file to use on each OST at most
1/\fIcap \fRof the available space of the smallest OST.  If this option is not
set, a default value of 100 is used, limiting the object size to 1% of available
space.
.TP
.B \\--help|-h
Display help information.
.TP
.B \\--no-rsync
Do not fall back to using rsync if
.BR lfs-migrate (1) " fails."
Cannot be used at the same time as \fB--rsync\fR.
.B \\--min-free|-M \fI<min_free>
When \fB-A \fRis set, only consider OSTs with free space greater than the
\fImin_free \fRvalue to be available for migration.  The value is specified in
KB. If this option is not set, a default of 256MB is used.
.TP
.BR \\--pool | -q \fI<pool>
Migrate files to specified pool.
.TP
.BR \\--quiet | -q
Run quietly (don't print filenames or status).
.TP
.B \\--rsync
Force rsync to be used instead of
.BR lfs-migrate (1) .
May not be used at the same time as
.BR --no-rsync .
.TP
.B \\--restripe|-R
Restripe file using default directory striping instead of keeping striping.
This option may not be specified at the same time as the \fB-A\fR, \fB-c\fR, or
\fB-S \fRoptions.  (these options are passed through to
.BR "lfs migrate" ,
and are therefore not listed here).
.TP
.B \\--skip|-s
Skip file data comparison after migrate.  Default is to compare migrated file
against original to verify correctness.
.TP
.B \\--verbose|-v
Show verbose debug messages.
.B \\--max-free|-X \fI<max_free>
When \fB-A \fRis set, \fImax_free \fRis the maximum amount of free space that
can be considered available for the migration of the file on each OST.  The
value is specified in KB.  This option is useful for testing, by simulating
OSTs that are nearly full.
.TP
.B \\--yes|-y
Answer 'y' to usage warning without prompting (for scripts; use with caution).
.SH EXAMPLES
To rebalance all files within
.I /testfs/jobs/2011
.B \\--stripe-size|-S
.I <stripe_size>
Restripe file using the specified stripe size. This option may not be
specified at the same time as the \fB-R \fRoption.
.TP
.B \\--yes|-y
Answer 'y' to usage warning without prompting (for scripts, use with caution).
.TP
.B \\-0
Input file names on stdin are separated by a null character.
.SH EXAMPLES
To rebalance all files within
.I /testfs/jobs/2011
(which are known not to be modified by in-use programs):
.IP
lfs_migrate /testfs/jobs/2011
.PP
To migrate files within the
.I /testfs
filesystem on OST0004 (perhaps because it is much more full than other OSTs),
larger than 4GB (because it is more efficient to just migrate large files),
and older than two days (to avoid files that are in use, though this is NOT
a guarantee the files are not being modified, that is workload specific) after
disabling file creation on testfs-OST0004 (this is needed on all MDS nodes):
.IP
.nf
mds# lctl set_param osp.testfs-OST0004*.max_create_count=0
client# lfs find /testfs -obd testfs-OST0004 -size +4G -mtime +2d | lfs_migrate -y
mds# lctl set_param osp.testfs-OST0004*.max_create_count=20000
.fi
.PP
To use automatic striping, and limit the object size per OST to 5% of current
free space:
.IP
lfs_migrate -A -C 20 /testfs/jobs/2011
.SH NOTES
In versions prior to 2.5,
.B lfs_migrate
is
.B not
closely integrated with the MDS, and cannot determine whether a file
is currently open and/or in-use by other applications or nodes.  That makes
it
.B UNSAFE
for use on files that might be modified by other applications, since the
migrated file is only a copy of the current file. This will result in the
old file becoming an open-unlinked file, and any modifications to that file
will be lost.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lfs_migrate
is part of the
.BR Lustre (7)
filesystem package.  Added in the 1.8.4 release.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1)
