.TH llapi_create_volatile_param 3 "2015-01-14" "" "Lustre User API"
.SH NAME
llapi_create_volatile_param \- Lustre API file management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
\fB#include <lustre/lustreapi.h>\fP
.sp
\fBint llapi_create_volatile_param(const char *\fPdirectory\fB,
int\fP mdt_idx\fB, int\fP open_flags\fB, mode_t\fP mode\fB, const
struct llapi_stripe_param *\fPstripe_param\fB)\fP
.sp
\fBint llapi_create_volatile_idx(char *\fPdirectory\fB, int\fP idx\fB, int\fP open_flags\fB)\fP
.sp
\fBint llapi_create_volatile(char *\fPdirectory\fB, int\fP mode\fB)\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
These three functions create an anonymous, temporary, volatile file on
a Lustre filesystem. The created file is not visible with
\fBls(1)\fP\&. Once the file is closed, or the owning process dies, the
file is permanently removed from the filesystem.
.sp
These functions will also work on a non\-Lustre filesystem, where the
file is created then unlinked, leaving only the file descriptor to
access the file. This is not strictly equivalent because there is a
small window during which the file is visible to users (provided they
have access to the \fIdirectory\fP).
.sp
The \fIdirectory\fP parameter indicates where to create the file on the
Lustre filesystem.
.sp
\fImdt_idx\fP is the MDT index onto which to create the file. To use a
default MDT, set mdt_idx to \-1.
.sp
\fIopen_flags\fP and \fImode\fP are the same as \fBopen(2)\fP\&.
.sp
\fIstripe_param\fP describes the striping information. If it is NULL, then
the default for the directory is used.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.sp
\fBllapi_create_volatile_param\fP, \fBllapi_create_volatile_idx\fP and
\fBllapi_create_volatile\fP return a file descriptor on success. They
all return a negative errno on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
The negative errno can be, but is not limited to:
.sp
\fB\-EINVAL\fP An invalid value was passed.
.sp
\fB\-ENOMEM\fP Not enough memory to allocate a resource.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
\fBlustreapi\fP(7)
.SH AUTHOR
Frank Zago for Cray Inc.
