.TH llapi_layout_pool_name_get 3 "2013 Oct 31" "Lustre User API"
.SH NAME
llapi_layout_pool_name_get, llapi_layout_pool_name_set \- get or set the
OST pool name of a Lustre file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lustre/lustreapi.h>
.PP
.BI "int llapi_layout_pool_name_get(const struct llapi_layout *" layout ",
.BI "                               char *" pool_name ", size_t " n ");
.sp
.BI "int llapi_layout_pool_name_set(struct llapi_layout *" layout ",
.BI "                               const char *" pool_name );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B llapi_layout_pool_name_get()
stores into
.I pool_name
up to
.I n
characters of the name of the pool of OSTS associated with
.IR layout .
.PP
.B llapi_layout_pool_name_set()
sets the OST pool name of
.I  layout
to
.IR pool_name .
If
.I pool_name
uses "fsname.pool" notation to qualify the pool name
with a filesystem name, the "fsname." portion will be silently
discarded before storing the value.
.PP
.B llapi_layout_pool_name_set()
does not validate that
.I pool_name
names an existing non-empty pool, since it is not known a priori which
filesystem
.I layout
will be applied to. However, the function
.B llapi_layout_file_create()
will fail if given a
.I layout
with a pool that does not exist or contains no OSTs.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.B llapi_layout_pool_name_get()
and
.B llapi_layout_pool_name_set()
return 0 on success, or -1 if an error occurred (in which case, errno is
set appropriately).
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM EINVAL
An invalid argument was specified.
.SH NOTES
.PP
A pool defines a set of OSTs from which objects may be allocated
to store a file in a Lustre filesystem.
Pools are created by the filesystem administrator using the
.BR lctl (1)
command.  This API allows an application to create a file within an
existing pool, or to query the name of a pool that a file was created
in. It does not provide an interface for creating or destroying pools.
Refer to the Lustre Operations Manual for detailed background material
about OST pools.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR llapi_layout_alloc (3),
.BR llapi_layout_file_open (3),
.BR llapi_layout (7),
.BR liblustreapi (7),
.BR lctl (1)
