.TH llapi_changelog_start 3 "2022-11-08" "" "Lustre User API"
.SH NAME
llapi_changelog_start, llapi_changelog_set_xflags, llapi_changelog_fini \- Initialize and clean a read instance for MDT changelogs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lustre/lustreapi.h>
.PP
.BI "int llapi_changelog_start(void **" priv ", enum changelog_send_flag " flags ,
.BI "                          const char *" device ", long long " startrec ");"
.PP
.BI "int llapi_changelog_set_xflags(void *" priv,
.BI "                               enum changelog_send_extra_flag " extra_flags ");"
.PP
.BI "int llapi_changelog_fini(void **" priv ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The function
.B llapi_changelog_start()
initializes a new instance
.I priv
to read MDT changelogs. It opens the changelog char device
corresponding to the MDT's name given by
.I device
(e.g: "lustrefs-MDT0000").
.br
A changelog starting point can be specified with
.I startrec
record number.
.B llapi_changelog_recv()
will get changelog records with numbers greater or equal than
.IR startrec .
0 value means that all records will be read.
.PP
Some options can be passed to
.B llapi_changelog_start()
with
.I flags
mask.
.PP
.B enum changelog_send_flag
values:
.nf
.LP
	CHANGELOG_FLAG_FOLLOW
	CHANGELOG_FLAG_BLOCK
	CHANGELOG_FLAG_JOBID
	CHANGELOG_FLAG_EXTRA_FLAGS
.fi
.TP
CHANGELOG_FLAG_FOLLOW
Use changelog follow mode:
.B llapi_changelog_recv()
will not return when all records have been read.  Instead it will block until a
new record is available. It avoids restarting an instance and re-scan for newer
changelogs.
.TP
CHANGELOG_FLAG_BLOCK
Deprecated since Lustre 2.10.
.TP
CHANGELOG_FLAG_JOBID
Pack jobid into the changelog records if available.
.TP
CHANGELOG_FLAG_EXTRA_FLAG
Pack additional flag bits into the changelog record.
.PP
The function
.B llapi_changelog_set_xflags()
specifies additional changelog flags with
.I extra_flags
mask for the instance
.IR priv .
To use those extra flags, CHANGELOG_FLAG_EXTRA_FLAG must be set by
.B llapi_changelog_start()
on
.I flags
parameter.
.PP
.B enum changelog_send_extra_flag
values:
.nf
.LP
	CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_UIDGID
	CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_NID
	CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_OMODE
	CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_XATTR
.fi
.TP
CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_UIDGID
Pack uid/gid into the changelog record
.TP
CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_NID
Pack nid into the changelog record
.TP
CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_OMODE
Pack open mode into the changelog record
.TP
CHANGELOG_EXTRA_FLAG_XATTR
Pack xattr name into the changelog record
.PP
The function
.B llapi_changelog_fini()
closes the MDT's changelog char device and free internal pointers for the instance
.IR priv .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Return 0 on success or a negative errno value on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
.SM -ENOMEM
Insufficient memory to complete operation.
.TP
.SM -EINVAL
One or more invalid arguments are given.
.TP
.SM -ENOENT
MDT's changelog char device not found. Is the Lustre FS mounted?
.TP
.SM -EACCES
Not enough permissions to open the changelog char device. By default, the device
is only accessible to the root user.
.SH EXAMPLE
An example can be found for in lfs.c source file.
.B lfs_changelog()
implements the following command:
.br
.BI "lfs changelog [--follow] " MDTNAME " [" STARTREC " [" ENDREC "]]"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lfs-changelog (1),
.BR llapi_changelog_clear (3)
.BR llapi_changelog_get_fd (3),
.BR llapi_changelog_in_buf (3),
.BR llapi_changelog_recv (3),
.BR lustreapi (7)
