.TH LLJOBSTAT 8 2024-08-28 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
lljobstat \- display top jobs and statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "llobdstat"
.RB [ -c|--count
.IR COUNT ]
.RB [ -i|--interval
.IR INTERVAL ]
.RB [ -n|--repeats
.IR REPEATS ]
.RB [ -m|--mdt ]
.RB [ -o|--ost ]
.RB [ --param
.IR PARAM ]
.RB [ --fullname ]
.RB [ --no-fullname ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lljobstat
reads and parses the job_stats files on local node,
sums up the operations of each job, and displays the top jobs.
Repeat for some times or forever with given interval.
.P
Type Ctrl-C to stop printing.
.SS Abbreviations
.B lljobstat
displays abbreviations of operation names as listed below:
.P
.nf
ops: total number of operations
cl: close,      cr: create,     dt: destroy,    fa: fallocate, ga: getattr
gi: get_info,   gx: getxattr,   ln: link,       mi: migrate,   mk: mkdir
mn: mknod,      mv: rename,     op: open,       pa: prealloc,  pu: punch
qc: quotactl,   rd: read,       rm: rmdir,      sa: setattr,   si: set_info
st: statfs,     sx: setxattr,   sy: sync,       ul: unlink,    wr: write
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -c ", " --count \ \fICOUNT
how many top jobs are listed. Default 5.
.TP
.BR -i ", " --interval \ \fIINTERVAL
interval in seconds before list top jobs again. Default 10.
.TP
.BR -n ", " --repeats \ \fIREPEATS
how many times to repeat. Default unlimited.
.TP
.BR -m ", " --mdt
get data from only job_stats of MDTs.
.TP
.BR -o ", " --ost
get data from only job_stats of OSTs.
.TP
.BI --param " PARAM"
get data from only PARAM path. For example, "*.lustre-*.job_stat".
.TP
.B --fullname
show full name of operations. Default no.
.TP
.B --no-fullname
show abbreviated name of operations.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
print help message.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
.B # lljobstat -n 1 -c 3
---
timestamp: 1665623345
top_jobs:
- rm.0:            {ops: 99, cl: 32, ul: 16, rm: 16, ga: 19, st: 16}
- touch.500:       {ops: 48, op: 8, cl: 8, mn: 8, ga: 8, sa: 16}
- dd.0:            {ops: 38, op: 4, cl: 4, mn: 1, ga: 1, sa: 3, gx: 3, wr: 19, pu: 3}
\[char46]..
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B lljobstat
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.16.0
.\" Added in commit v2_15_53-96-ge2812e8773
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR llobdstat (8)
