.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2016, Intel Corporation.
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under the terms of the GNU Public License.
.\"
.TH mkfs.lustre 8 "2014 Jun 10" Lustre "configuration utilities"
.SH NAME
mkfs.lustre \- format a disk for a Lustre service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B mkfs.lustre
.RB { --ost | --mdt | --mgs }
.BR --fsname= <\fIname\fR>
.RI [ options ]
.I device
.br
.B mkfs.lustre
.RB { --ost | --mdt | --mgs }
.B --backfstype=zfs
.BR --fsname= <\fIname\fR>
.RI [ options "] <" pool_name >/< dataset_name "> [<" zpool_specification >]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkfs.lustre
is used to format a disk device for use as part of a Lustre
filesystem. After formatting, a disk can be mounted with
.B mount -t lustre ...
to start the Lustre service defined by this command.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \--ost
object storage target
.TP
.BI \--mdt
metadata storage target
.TP
.BI \--mgs
configuration management service, one per site or filesystem.  This service can
be combined with one
.BI \--mdt
service by specifying both types.
.TP
.BI \--backfstype= fstype
Force a particular format for the backing fs (ldiskfs, zfs).
.br
.IR zpool_specification " = [[<" vdev_type ">] <" device "> [<" device "> ...] [<" vdev_type ">] ...]"
.br
.IR vdev_type " ="
.RB { mirror , raidz , raidz2 , raidz3 , cache }
.br
.IR device " = { " "Linux block device" " }"

If no vdev_type is given, then the devices are used in a round-robin
(striped) manner. See
.BR zpool (8)
for more details.
.TP
.BI \--comment= comment
Set user comment about this disk, ignored by Lustre.
.TP
.BI \--device-size= KB
Set device size for loop devices
.TP
.BI \--dryrun
Only print what would be done; does not affect the disk
.TP
.BI \--failnode= nid,...
Set the NID(s) of a failover partner. This option can be repeated as desired.
Cannot be used with --servicenode.
.TP
.BI \--servicenode= nid,....
Set the NID(s) of all service partner. This option treats all nodes as equal
service nodes. Cannot be used with --failnode.
.TP
.BI \--fsname= filesystem_name
The Lustre filesystem this service will be part of. The maximum filesystem_name
length is 8 characters. Required for all targets other than MGS.
.TP
.BI \--index= index
Specify a particular OST or MDT index. Required for all targets other than the MGS.
The index parameter may either be a decimal number or a hexadecimal number
starting with '0x'.
.TP
.BI \--mkfsoptions= opts
Format options for the backing fs. For example, ext3 options could be set here.
.TP
.BI \--mountfsoptions= opts
Set the persistent mount options that will be used when mounting Lustre fs.
WARNING: unlike earlier versions of \fBmkfs.lustre\fR, this version completely
replaces the default mount options with those specified on the command line,
issuing a warning on stderr if any of the default mount options are omitted.
The defaults for \fIldiskfs\fR are
OST: \fIerrors=remount-ro,mballoc,extents\fR;
MGS/MDT: \fIerrors=remount-ro,user_xattr\fR.
\fBDO NOT\fR alter the default mount options unless you know what you are doing.
.TP
.BI \--backfs-mount-opts=opts
Use these options for mounting backing fs while mkfs.lustre is working.
.TP
.BI \--network= net,...
Network(s) to restrict this ost/mdt to. This option can be repeated as desired.
.TP
.BI \--mgsnode= nid,...
Set the NID(s) of the MGS node, required for all targets other than the MGS.
.TP
.BI \--param " key=value"
Set permanent parameter
.I key
to value
.IR value .
This option can be repeated as desired. Typical options might include:
.RS
.I \--param sys.timeout=40
.RS
System obd timeout
.RE
.I \--param lov.stripesize=2M
.RS
Default stripe size
.RE
.I \--param lov.stripecount=2
.RS
Default stripe count
.RE
.I \--param failover.mode=failout
.RS
Return errors instead of waiting for recovery
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI \--quiet
Print less information.
.TP
.BI \--reformat
Reformat an existing Lustre disk as a new target
.TP
.BI \--replace
Used to initialize a target with the same
.I --index
as a previously used target if the old target was permanently lost for
some reason (e.g. multiple disk failure or massive corruption).  This
avoids having the target try to register as a new target with the MGS.
.TP
.BI \--stripe-count-hint= stripes
Used for optizing MDT inode size
.TP
.BI \--force-nohostid
Ignore unset hostid for ZFS import protection. To set hostid either set
spl_hostid parameter for spl.ko or set /etc/hostid, see zgenhostid(8).  To
populate the spl_hostid parameter, spl.ko must be (re)loaded after /etc/hostid is
created.

.TP
.BI \--verbose
Print more information.
.TP
.BI \--version
Output build version of the mkfs.lustre utiltiy.

.SH NID
A Lustre network identifier (NID) is used to uniquely identify a Lustre network
endpoint by node ID and network type. The format of the NID is:
\fInetwork_id@network_type\fR.
If a node has multiple network interfaces, it may have multiple NIDs, which must
all be identified so other nodes can choose the NID that is appropriate for
their network interfaces. Typically, NIDs are specified in a list delimited by
commas (,). However, when failover nodes are specified, the NIDs are delimited
by a colon (:) or by repeating a keyword such as \fI--mgsnode=\fR or
\fI--servicenode=\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B mkfs.lustre --fsname=testfs --index=0 --mdt --mgs /dev/sda1
Combined MGS and MDT for filesystem 'testfs' on node e.g. cfs21
.TP
.B mkfs.lustre --fsname=testfs --index=0 --ost --mgsnode=cfs21@tcp0 /dev/sdb
OST for filesystem 'testfs' on any node using the above MGS.
.TP
.B mkfs.lustre --fsname=testfs --index=0 --mdt --mgs --servicenode=cfs21@tcp0,cfs21ib@o2ib0 --servicenode=cfs22@tcp0,cfs22ib@o2ib0 /dev/sda1
Combined MGS and MDT for filesystem 'testfs' on failover pair cfs21 and cfs22.
.TP
.B mkfs.lustre --fsname=testfs --index=0 --ost --mgsnode=cfs21@tcp0,cfs21ib@o2ib0:cfs22@tcp0,cfs22ib@o2ib0 --failnode=cfs24@tcp0,cfs24ib@o2ib0 /dev/sdb
OST for filesystem 'testfs' using the above MGS and having a failover partner
cfs24.
.TP
.B mkfs.lustre --mgs /dev/sda1
Standalone MGS on e.g. node cfs22
.TP
.B mkfs.lustre --fsname=myfs1 --index=0 --mdt --mgsnode=cfs22@tcp0 /dev/sda2
MDT for filesystem 'myfs1' on any node, using the above MGS
.TP
.B mkfs.lustre --fsname=testfs --index=0 --mdt --mgs zfspool/mdt1 mirror /dev/sdb /dev/sdc mirror /dev/sdd /dev/sde
Create zfs pool 'zfspool' on two root vdevs each a mirror of two disks and create mdt/mgs on
filesystem 'zfspool/mdt1'.

.SH AVAILABILITY
.B mkfs.lustre
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lustre (7),
.BR mount.lustre (8),
.BR tunefs.lustre (8),
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lfs (1),
.BR zpool (8)
