.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2017, Intel Corporation.
.\"
.\" This file may be copied under the terms of the GNU Public License v2.
.\"
.TH MOUNT.LUSTRE 8 2024-08-28 Lustre "Lustre Configuration Utilities"
.SH NAME
mount.lustre, mount.lustre_tgt \- mount helper for Lustre client/target service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "mount -t lustre"
.BR [ -o
.IR OPTIONS ]
.IR MGSNAME :/ FSNAME
.I CLIENT_MOUNTPOINT
.SY "mount -t lustre_tgt"
.BR [ -o
.IR OPTIONS ]
.I BLOCK_DEVICE
.I SERVER_MOUNTPOINT
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mount.lustre
and
.B mount.lustre_tgt
are used to start a Lustre client or target service, respectively. They
should not be called directly; rather they are helper programs invoked through
.BR mount (8)
as above when the
.B lustre
or
.B lustre_tgt
filesystem type is used. Lustre clients and targets are stopped by using the
.BR umount (8)
command. When mounted, Lustre clients will have parameters set according to
what is described in
.BR /etc/lustre/mount.client.params ,
and/or the
.BI /etc/lustre/mount. FSNAME .params
file, with lines of the same style as
.BR lctl-set_param (8),
with lines of the form
.IR PARAM = VALUE .
.P
There are two forms for the device option passed to the
.I mount
command, depending on whether a client or a target service is started:
.TP
.IR MGSNAME :/ FSNAME [/ SUBDIR ]
mounts the Lustre client filesystem named
.I FSNAME
(optionally starting at subdirectory
.I SUBDIR
within the filesystem, if specified) on the client at the directory
.IR CLIENT_MOUNTPOINT ,
by contacting the Management Service at
.IR MGSNAME .
The format for
.I MGSNAME
is defined below. A client filesystem will typically be listed in
.BR fstab (5)
for automatic mount at boot time, is usable like any local filesystem, and
provides a full POSIX-compilant interface.
.TP
.I BLOCK_DEVICE
specifies the physical disk or ZFS dataset uses to start the target service
formatted by the
.BR mkfs.lustre (8)
command. The
.I BLOCK_DEVICE
may be specified using
.BI -L LABEL
to find the first block device with that label (e.g.
.BR testfs-MDT0000 ),
or by UUID using the
.BI -U UUID
option. Care should be taken if there is a device-level backup of
the target filesystem, which would have a duplicate label and UUID if it is
not changed with
.BR tune2fs (8)
or similar. The mounted target service filesystem at
.I MOUNTPOINT
is only useful for
.BR df (1)
operations to show the current space usage, and appears in
.BR /proc/mounts
to show the device is in use.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.IB MGSNAME := MGSNODE [: MGSNODE ]
The
.I MGSNAME
may be a colon-separated list of
.I MGSNODE
names where the MGS service may run. Multiple
.I MGSNODE
values can be specified if the MGS service is configures for HA failover
and may be running on any one of the nodes.
.TP
.IB MGSNODE := MGSNID [, MGSNID ]
Each
.I MGSNODE
may specify a comma-separated list of NIDs, if there are different
LNet interfaces for the same
.IR MGSNODE .
.TP
.BI mgssec= FLAVOR
Specifies the encryption flavour for the initial network RPC connection to
the MGS node.
.IP
Non-security flavors are:
.BR null ,
.BR plain ,
and
.BR gssnull ,
which respectively disable, or have no encryption or integrity features for
testing purposes.
.IP
Kerberos flavors are:
.BR krb5n ,
.BR krb5a ,
.BR krb5i ,
and
.BR krb5p .
.IP
Shared-secret key flavors are:
.BR skn ,
.BR ska ,
.BR ski ,
and
.BR skpi .
.IP
See
.BR lgss_sk (8)
for more details. The security flavour for client-to-server connections is
specified in the filesystem configuration that the client fetches from the MGS.
.TP
.BI skpath= FILE \fR| DIRECTORY
Path to a file or directory with the keyfile(s) to load for this mount command.
Keys are inserted into the KEY_SPEC_SESSION_KEYRING keyring with a description
containing "lustre:" and a suffix which depends on whether the context of the
mount command is for an MGS, MDT/OST, or client.
This option is only available when built with --enable-gss.
.TP
.BI exclude= OSTLIST
Start a client or MDT with a (colon-separated) list of known inactive OSTs.
.SS CLIENT OPTIONS
In addition to the standard options listed in
.BR mount (8),
Lustre understands the following
.B client-specific
options:
.TP
.B flock
Enable full distributed
.BR flock (2)
support, coherent across all client nodes also using this mount option. This
is useful if applications need coherent userspace file locking across multiple
client nodes, has no measurable performance impact in modern (2.x) versions of
Lustre, is therefore the recommended mode, and is enabled by default in Lustre
2.12.3 and newer.
.TP
.B localflock
Enable local
.BR flock (2)
support, using only client-local file locking. This is faster than mounting
with the
.B flock
option, and can be used for applications that depend on functioning
.BR flock (2)
but run only on a single node.
.TP
.B noflock
Disables
.BR flock (2)
support entirely. Applications calling
.BR flock (2)
will get an
.B ENOSYS
error. It is possible to mount clients with different options,
and only those mounted with
.B flock
will be coherent amongst each other.
.TP
.B lazystatfs
Allows
.BR statfs (2)
(as used by
.BR df (1)
and
.BR lfs-df (1))
to return even if some OST or MDT is unresponsive or has been temporarily
or permanently disabled in the configuration. This avoids blocking until
all of the targets are available. This is the default since Lustre 2.9.0.
.TP
.B nolazystatfs
Requires that
.BR statfs (2)
block until all OSTs and MDTs are available and have returned space usage.
.TP
.B user_xattr
Enable get/set of extended attributes by regular users. See the
.BR attr (5)
manual page.
.TP
.B nouser_xattr
Disable use of extended attributes by regular users.
Root and system processes can still use extended attributes.
.TP
.B always_ping
Force a client to keep pinging even if servers have enabled suppress_pings.
.TP
.B verbose
Enable mount/remount/umount console messages.
.TP
.B noverbose
Disable mount/remount/umount console messages.
.TP
.B user_fid2path
Enable FID to path translation by regular users via
.BR "lfs fid2path" .
.TP
.B nouser_fid2path
Disable FID to path translation by regular users. Root and process with
CAP_DAC_READ_SEARCH can still perform FID to path translation.
.TP
.BI network= NET
Limit connections from the client to be on the network NID specified by 'net'.
\'net\' designates a single network NID, like 'o2ib2' or 'tcp1'.
This option can be useful in case of several Lustre client mount
points on the same node, with each mount point using a different
network. It is also interesting when running Lustre clients from
containers, by restricting each container to a specific network.
.IP
Warning! 'network' option is incompatible with LNet Dynamic Peer Discovery.
If you want to restrict client NID, please make sure LNet Dynamic Peer Discovery
is disabled.
.TP
.B test_dummy_encryption
Enable test dummy encryption mode.
.RE
.TP
.BI noencrypt
Disable Lustre client-side encryption. By default, Lustre client-side encryption
is enabled, letting users define encryption policies on a per-directory basis.
fscrypt userspace tool can be used for that purpose, see
https://github.com/google/fscrypt
.SS SERVER OPTIONS
In addition to the standard mount options and backing disk type
(e.g. ldiskfs) options listed in
.BR mount (8),
Lustre understands the following
.B server-specific
options:
.TP
.BI acl
Enable POSIX Access Control List support for all clients. See the
.BR acl (5)
manual page.
.TP
.BI no_create
Do not allow objects to be created on an OST, or new directories
on an MDT after mounting. This allows a (potentially newly-formatted)
MDT or OST to be started without clients starting to use it immediately.
To allow the new target to be used for allocation, unmount and mount the
target again without this option, or run
.BI "lctl set_param mdt." fsname -OST nnnn .no_create=0
or
.BI "lctl set_param obdfilter." fsname -MDT nnnn .no_create=0
on the server node.
.BR NOTE :
this does not start the OST or MDT read-only, it only disables the
creation of new objects there. This means existing objects can be
be read, modified, or deleted. If the OST or MDT is new then
it will not have any objects on it yet.
.TP
.BI nosvc
Only start the MGC (and MGS, if co-located) for a target service,
and not the actual MDS or OSS service.
.TP
.BI nomgs
Start an MDT with a co-located MGS without starting the MGS service.
.TP
.BI noscrub
Do not trigger OI scrub automatically when an inconsistency is detected.
It is still possible to start explicitly using the
.BR "lctl lfsck_start" .
.TP
.BI skip_lfsck
Do not resume the former paused/crashed LFSCK automatically when mounting.
.TP
.BI abort_recov
Abort client recovery and start the target service immediately.
.TP
.BI md_stripe_cache_size= cache_size
Sets the MD RAID 'stripe_cache_size' parameter to
.I cache_size
KiB for server OST or MDT block device with a striped RAID configuration.
.TP
.BI recovery_time_soft= timeout
Allow
.I timeout
seconds for clients to reconnect for recovery after a server
crash.  This timeout will be incrementally extended if it is about to expire
and the server is still handling new connections from recoverable clients.
The default soft recovery timeout is set to 300 seconds (5 minutes).
.TP
.BI recovery_time_hard= timeout
The server will be allowed to incrementally extend its timeout up to a hard
maximum of 'timeout' seconds.
The default hard recovery timeout is set to 900 seconds (15 minutes).
.SH BUGS
Not very many mount options can be changed with
.BR "-o remount" .
.SH EXAMPLES
Start a client for the Lustre filesystem
.B testfs
at the mount point
.BR /mnt/myfilesystem .
The Management Service is running on a node reachable via NID
.BR cfs21@tcp0 :
.RS
.EX
.B # mount -t lustre cfs21@tcp0:/testfs /mnt/myfilesystem
.EE
.RE
.PP
Like above example, but mount subdirectory
.B dir
as fileset:
.RS
.EX
.B # mount -t lustre cfs21@tcp0:/testfs/dir /mnt/myfilesystem
.EE
.RE
.PP
Like above example, but the Management Service is running on one of the service
nodes
.B mgs1
and
.BR mgs2 ,
which are two different hosts separated by a colon and
served as a failover pair. Lustre tries the first one, and if that fails, it
tries the second one. On each service node, the comma-separated NIDs refer to
different interfaces on the same host, and the Lustre client chooses the best
one for communication based on which network interfaces are available locally:
.RS
.EX
.B # mount -t lustre mgs1@tcp0,mgs1ib@o2ib0:mgs2@tcp0,mgs2ib@o2ib0:/testfs /mnt/fs
.EE
.RE
.PP
Start the Lustre metadata target service from
.B /dev/sda1
on mountpoint
.BR /mnt/test/mdt :
.RS
.EX
.B # mount -t lustre_tgt /dev/sda1 /mnt/test/mdt
.EE
.RE
.PP
Start the
.B testfs-MDT0000
service (by using the disk label), but aborts the Lustre client recovery
process for the case that clients are known to be unavailable:
.RS
.EX
.B # mount -t lustre_tgt -L testfs-MDT0000 -o abort_recov /mnt/test/mdt
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B mount.lustre
and
.B mount.lustre_tgt
are part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package.
.B mount.lustre
was added in release 0.10.0
.\" Added in commit 0.9.1
.B mount.lustre_tgt
was added in release 2.13.0
.\" Added in commit v2_12_58-71-g510aea4a37
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lctl (8),
.BR mkfs.lustre (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR tunefs.lustre (8)
